
    The Project Gutenberg eBook of Short stories from Life: The 81 prize stories in "Life's" Shortest Story Contest
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and 
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms 
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online 
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, 
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located 
before using this eBook.



    
        Title: Short stories from Life: The 81 prize stories in "Life's" Shortest Story Contest
        
        Author of introduction, etc.: Thomas L. Masson

        
        Release date: May 15, 2022 [eBook #68085]
        Language: English
        Original publication: United States: Doubleday, Page & Company, 1916
        Credits: Roger Frank and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive)
    
        
            *** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SHORT STORIES FROM LIFE: THE 81 PRIZE STORIES IN "LIFE'S" SHORTEST STORY CONTEST ***
        




Short Stories From "Life"

The 81 Prize Stories in "Life's" Shortest Story Contest

With an Introduction by Thomas L. Masson

Managing Editor of "Life"

Garden City--New York

Doubleday, Page & Company

1916




Copyright, 1916, by

Doubleday, Page & Company

All rights reserved, including that of
translation into foreign languages,
including the Scandinavian

COPYRIGHT, 1916, BY THE LIFE PUBLISHING COMPANY




CONTENTS

    Introduction
       By Thomas L. Masson

    Thicker Than Water
       By Ralph Henry Barbour and George Randolph Osborne

    The Answer
       By Harry Stillwell Edwards

    Her Memory
       By Dwight M. Wiley

    Business and Ethics
       By Redfield Ingalls

    N. B.
       By Joseph Hall

    The Clearest Call
       By Brevard Mays Connor

    Greater Love Hath No Man
       By Selwyn Grattan

    The Gretchen Plan
       By William Johnston

    The Glory of War
       By M. B. Levick

    The Aviator
       By Hornell Hart

    Loyalty
       By Clarence Herbert New

    Moses Comes to Burning Bush
       By W. T. Larned

    North of Fifty-three
       By Mary Woodbury Caswell

    The Old Things
       By Jessie Anderson Chase

    The Forced March
       By Hornell Hart

    Approximating the Ultimate with Aunt Sarah
       By Charles Earl Gaymon

    The Horse Heaver
       By Lyman Bryson

    The Ego of the Metropolis
       By Thomas T. Hoyne

    The Gay Deceiver
       By Howard P. Stephenson

    In Cold Blood
       By Joseph Hall

    Housework--and the Man
       By Freeman Tilden

    His Journey's End
       By Ruth Sterry

    Food for Thought
       By Harriet Lummis Smith

    Hope
       By Edward Thomas Noonan

    Collusion
       By Lincoln Steffens

    Faithful to the End
       By Clair W. Perry

    Arletta
       By Margaret Ade

    Which?
       By Joseph Hall

    What the Vandals Leave
       By Herbert Riley Howe

    Ben. T. Allen, Atty., vs. Himself
       By William H. Hamby

    The Joke on Preston
       By Lewis Allen

    The Idyl
       By Joseph F. Whelan

    Withheld
       By Ella B. Argo

    Up and Down
       By Bertha Lowry Gwynne

    Patches
       By Francis E. Norris

    The Arm at Gravelotte
       By William Almon Wolff

    The Bad Man
       By Harry C. Goodwin

    Nemesis
       By Mary Clark

    The Black Door
       By Gordon Seagrove

    The Man Who Told
       By John Cutler

    The Unanswered Call
       By Thomas T. Hayne

    The Women in the Case
       By Mary Sams Cooke

    The Cat That Came Back
       By Virginia West

    "Solitaire" Bill
       By Arthur Felix McEachern

    Just a Pal
       By Elsie D. Knisely

    When "Kultur" Was Beaten
       By Lieutenant X

    Presumption of Innocence
       By Lyman Bryson

    A Mexican Vivandi√®re
       By H. C. Washburn

    Mother's Birthday Present
       By Carrie Seever

    Red Blood or Blue
       By E. Montgomery

    Impulsive Mr. Jiggs
       By Roger Brown

    Tomaso and Me
       By Graham Clark

    The Old Grove Crossing
       By Albert H. Coggins

    Lost and Found
       By John Kendrick Bangs

    You Never Can Tell
       By "B. MacArthur"

    The Escape
       By A. Leslie Goodwin

    Two Letters, a Telegram, and a Finale
       By H. S. Haskins

    The Intruder
       By Reginald Barlow

    Molten Metal
       By Hornell Hart

    The Winner's Loss
       By Elliott Flower

    The Recoil of the Gun
       By Marian Parker

    "Man May Love"
       By Robert Sharp

    One Way--and Another
       By Noble May

    The Black Patch
       By Randolph Hartley

    A Shipboard Romance
       By Lewis Allen

    The Coward
       By Philip Francis Cook

    The Heart of a Burglar
       By Jane Dahl

    The Reward
       By Herbert Heron

    The First Girl
       By Louise Pond Jewell

    A Sophistry of Art
       By Eugene Smith

    The Message in the Air
       By B. R. Stevens

    In a Garden
       By Catherine Runscomb

    A Clever Catch
       By Lloyd F. Loux

    Strictly Business
       By Lincoln Steffens

    The Advent of the Majority
       By Stella Wynne Herron

    The Night Nurse
       By Will S. Gidley

    Why the Trench Was Lost
       By Charles F. Pietsch

    The King of the Pledgers
       By H. R. R. Hertzberg

    A Po-lice-man
       By Lincoln Steffens

    The Quest of the V. C.
       By A. Byers Fletcher

    Somewhere in Belgium
       By Percy Godfrey Savage




INTRODUCTION

By Thomas L. Masson

Managing Editor of _Life_


It was at a luncheon party that the idea of _Life's_ Short Story
Contest was first suggested by Mr. Lincoln Steffens. He propounded
this interesting query:

  "How short can a short story be and still be a short story?"

It was thereupon determined to discover, if possible, a practical
answer to this interesting question. The columns of _Life_ were
thrown open to contributors for many months, prizes aggregating
$1,750 were offered and eighty-one short stories were published.
This book contains these stories, including the four prize winners.

The contest cost in round numbers a little less than $12,000. Over
thirty thousand manuscripts were received. They came from all over
the world--from sufferers on hospital cots, from literary toilers
in the Philippines, from Europe, Asia, and Africa, and from every
State in the Union. One manuscript was sent from a trench at the
French battle front, where the story had been written between hand
grenades. Every kind of story was represented, the war story and the
love story being the leaders. Every kind of writing was represented,
from the short compound of trite banalities to the terse, dramatic,
carefully wrought out climax. Back of many of these efforts the
spectral forms of Guy de Maupassant and O. Henry hovered in sardonic
triumph. Tragedy predominated. The light touch was few and far
between. But it was still there, as the stories published show.

Here let me pay a just tribute to the readers who, with almost
superhuman courage, struggled through these thirty thousand
manuscripts. In the beginning they were a noble band of highly
intelligent and cultivated men and women, with strong constitutions,
ready and willing to face literature in any form. I understand that
many of them survived the contest. This speaks well for the virility
of our American stock. Theirs was a noble and enduring toil, and
theirs will be a noble and enduring fame. Without them this book now
might contain twenty-nine thousand nine hundred and eleven poor
stories instead of eighty-one good ones. To those among them who
still live, a long life and, let us hope, an ultimate recovery!

Naturally, in the method of securing the stories, there had to be
some way of getting the contributors to make them as short as
possible. Mr. Steffens' ingenious suggestion admirably attained this
end. First, a limit of fifteen hundred words was placed upon all
stories submitted, no story longer than this being admitted to the
contest. For each story accepted the contributor was paid, not for
what he wrote, but for what he did not write. That is to say, he was
paid at the rate of ten cents a word for the difference between what
he wrote and fifteen hundred words. If his story, for example,
happened to be 1,500 words in length, he got nothing. If it was
1,490 words he got one dollar. If there had been a story only ten
words long, the author would have received $149. To be accurate,
the longest story actually accepted for the contest was 1,495 words,
for which the author received fifty cents, and the shortest was 76
words, for which the author received $142.40. The interested reader
will be able to discover the identity of these two stories by
examining the stories in the book. At the original luncheon party a
large part of the warm discussion that took place turned on how
short a story could be made and still come within the definition of
a short story. It was really a question as to when is a story not a
story, but only an anecdote. When a story is a story, is it a
combination of plot, character, and setting or is it determined by
only one of these three elements? Must it end when you have ended it
or must it suggest something beyond the reading? I shall not attempt
to answer these questions. The definition of the short story should
be relegated to the realm of "What is Humor?" "Who is the mother of
the chickens?" and "How Old is Ann?" If you really wish to vary the
monotony of your intellectual life and get it away from "Who Wrote
Shakespeare?" or "Who killed Jack Robinson?" start a discussion as
to what a short story is. It has long been my private opinion that
the best short story in the world is the story of Ali Baba and the
Forty Thieves, but I have no doubt that, should I venture this
assertion in the company of others, there would be one to ask: "What
has that to do with the price of oil now?"

But in order that the reader may have some idea of the method
adopted in judging the stories which were finally selected, it may
be well to give what I may term a composite definition of what a
short story is, gathered from the various opinions offered when the
contest was originally under discussion by the judges. This
definition is not intended to be complete or final. It is not the
cohesive opinion of one individual, but only a number of rather
off-hand opinions which are of undoubted psychological interest as
bearing upon the final decisions.

A short story must contain at least two characters, for otherwise
there would be no contrast or struggle. A situation must be depicted
in which there are two opposing forces.

A short story must be a picture out of real life which gives the
reader a definite sensation, such as he gets upon looking at a
masterpiece of painting. While it must be complete in itself, the
art of it lies in what it suggests to the reader beyond its own
limits. That is to say, it must convey an idea much larger than
itself. This is the open sesame to the golden principle. (This is
well illustrated in the story that took the first prize.)

Every short story must of necessity deal with human beings, either
directly or indirectly. It must reveal in the briefest manner
possible--as it were, like a lightning flash--a situation that
carries the reader beyond it. It is, therefore, inevitable that the
supreme test of the short story lies in its climax. The climax must
gather up everything that has gone before, and perhaps by only one
word epitomize the whole situation in such a way as to produce in
the reader a sense of revelation--just as if he were the sole
spectator of a supremely interesting human mystery now suddenly made
plain.

The technique of the short story should be such that no word in its
vocabulary will suggest triteness or the fatal thought that the
author is dependent upon others for his phrasing. When, for example,
we read "With a glad cry she threw her arms about him" "A hoarse
shout went up from the vast throng" "He flicked the ashes," we know
at once that the author is only dealing in echoes.

These were some of the general considerations which governed the
readers and judges, but it would be unfair to say that there were
not other considerations which came up later on. In a number of
instances, manuscripts which were interesting and well written, and
even longer than others that were accepted for the contest, were
rejected because it was felt that they were not really stories, but
more in the nature of descriptive sketches.

So far as the practical method pursued was concerned, it will not be
amiss to state briefly how the work was carried on.

It was deemed best, on general principles, to let the authors of the
stories have a hand in the matter, the editors feeling frankly that
they preferred a disinterested method which would relieve them in a
measure from the fullest responsibility. The conditions were
therefore made to read that:

  "The editors of 'Life' will first select out of all the stories
  published, the twelve which are, in their judgment, the best. The
  authors of these twelve stories will then be asked to become
  judges of the whole contest, which will then include all the
  stories published. These twelve authors will decide which are the
  best three stories, in the order of their merit, to be awarded the
  prizes. In case for any reason any one or more of these twelve
  authors should be unable to act as a judge, then the contest will
  be decided by the rest.

  "Each of these twelve judges will, of course, if he so wishes,
  vote for his own story first, so that the final result may
  probably be determined by the combined second, third, and fourth
  choices of all the judges. This, however, will not affect the
  result. In case of a division among the judges, the Editors of
  'Life' will cast the deciding vote."

This method worked well and was fully justified by the final result.
As the manuscripts were received they were registered according to a
careful clerical system and turned over to the readers, who were
from five to seven in number, including three women. The rule was
that each story should be read independently by at least two
readers, their verdicts separately recorded. If they were unanimous
in rejecting a story, it was returned. If they were agreed upon its
merits, or if they were at all doubtful, it was then passed up to
the five members of _Life's_ editorial staff. It was read and reread
by them, and the individual comments of each editor recorded
independently. By this sifting process, each story was subjected to
a final process of discussion and elimination. The stories, as
accepted, were paid for on the basis of ten cents a word for all the
words under 1,500 which the story did not contain and were published
in _Life_. From the authors of the eighty-one stories published, the
editors selected the following twelve judges, each one of whom
consented to serve:

  Herbert Heron, Carmel, Cal.
  J. H. Ranxom, Houston, Texas.
  Ralph Henry Barbour, Manchester, Mass.
  Clarence Herbert New, Brooklyn, N. Y.
  William Johnston, New York City.
  Graham Clark, New York City.
  Mrs. Elsie D. Knisely, Everett, Wash.
  Mrs. Jane Dahl, San Francisco, Cal.
  Selwyn Grattan, New York City.
  E. L. Smith, Ft. Worth, Texas.
  Herbert Riley Howe, Sioux Falls, S. Dak.
  Miss Ruth Sterry, Los Angeles, Cal.

These judges, independently of each other, sent in their opinions,
several of them not voting for their own stories as the first prize,
although this was allowable under the rules. There was no difficulty
on their part in awarding the first prize of one thousand dollars
and the second prize of five hundred dollars. In the case of the
third prize there was such a division of opinion that the editors,
under the rule of the competition that gave them the final decision,
determined that it would be fair to divide the third prize between
two competitors who had received the same number of the judges'
votes.

The prize winners were as follows:

FIRST PRIZE

    Ralph Henry Barbour of Manchester, Mass., and George Randolph
    Osborne of Cambridge, Mass., joint authors of "Thicker Than
    Water."

SECOND PRIZE

    Harry Stillwell Edwards of Macon, Georgia, author of "The
    Answer."

THIRD PRIZE

    Dwight M. Wiley of Princeton, Ill., author of "Her Memory," and
    Redfield Ingalls of New York City, author of "Business and
    Ethics." This prize was divided.

This book is now offered to the public in the confident hope and the
firm belief that it will be found a valuable contribution to the
literature of short fiction, in addition to the interest it also
merits because of the stories themselves.

One final point should be emphasized. This book is not, in the very
nature of the case, a book of uniform literary style; it is not the
polished expression of the highest literary art. It is the best of
thirty thousand attempts to write a short story, by all sorts and
conditions of minds--a fair proportion of them amateurs, a fair
proportion writers of considerable experience, and a small
proportion excellently skilled craftsmen. In their final selection
of these stories, the readers and judges were governed, not so much
by the question "Is this superfine literary art?" as they were by
the question "Is this interesting?" By this touchstone the book
certainly justifies its existence.

                                                        T. L. M.


-------------------------------------------------------------------

N. B.

By Joseph Hall


Lieutenant Ludwig Kreusler glanced hurriedly through the mail that
had accumulated during the month that the X-8 had been away from
base. At the bottom of the pile he found the letter he had been
seeking and his eyes brightened. It was a fat letter, addressed in
feminine handwriting, and its original postmark was Washington,
D. C., U. S. A.

"His Excellency will see you, sir." The orderly had entered quietly
and stood at attention.

With a slightly impatient shrug the Lieutenant shoved the letters
into his pocket and left the room.

He found Admiral Von Herpitz, the wizard of the sea, at his desk. As
the young man entered the old Admiral rose and came forward. This
unusual mark of favour somewhat embarrassed the young officer until
the old man, placing both huge hands upon his shoulders, looked into
his eyes.

"Excellent."

The one word conveyed a volume of praise, gratification. The old sea
dog was known as a silent man. Censure was more frequent from him
than applause.

The Lieutenant could find no word. The situation was for him
embarrassing in the extreme. He, like Herpitz, was a man of actions,
and words confused him.

"These English," the old Admiral spoke grimly, "we will teach them.
Have you seen the reports? They are having quite a little panic in
America also over the _Seronica_. Two hundred of the passengers lost
were American."

A file of papers lay on the table. Kreusler ran through them
hurriedly. The Berlin journals gave the sinking of the _Seronica_
great headlines followed by columns of sheer joy. The London and
Paris and some of the New York sheets called the exploit a crime and
its perpetrators pirates. But they all gave it utter and undivided
thought. The X-8 had become the horror craft of the world. Berlin
figuratively carried her young commander on her shoulders. He found
himself the hero of the hour.

"You have done well for the Fatherland," Von Herpitz repeated as the
Lieutenant was going out.

In his own cabin Kreusler forgot the _Seronica_ and the X-8. The fat
letter with the Washington postmark absorbed him.

Two years, ending with the outbreak of the great war, Kreusler had
been naval attach√© to the German embassy at Washington. He had been
popular in the society of the American capital. He was highly
educated, a profound scientist, an original thinker, and an
adaptable and interesting dinner guest. Dorothy Washburn, the
youngest daughter of the Senator from Oregon, had made her d√©but in
Washington during the second winter of Kreusler's presence there.
The two had met. They were exact opposites; he tall, severe, blond,
thoughtfully serious; she, small, dark, vivacious, bubbling with the
joy of life. Love was inevitable.

The fat letter was engrossing. It breathed in every line and word
and syllable the fine love this wonder woman gave him. One paragraph
was most astounding. It read:

"To be near thee, loved one, I have arranged, through the gracious
kindness of our friends, to come to Berlin as a nurse. Just when is
as yet uncertain, but come I will, fear not, as quickly as may be.
Dost long for me, to see me, dearest heart, as I for thee? Well,
soon perhaps that may not be so far away. Couldst not thou arrange
to be wounded--only slightly, of course, my love--so that I might
attend thee?"

The letter ended with tender love messages and assurances of
devotion. The last sheet bore a single word, "Over," and on the
reverse side a woman's most important news, a postscript. This read:

"P. S. Arrangements have been completed. Everything is settled. Even
my father has consented, knowing of my great love. I sail next
week."

And then:

"N. B. The ship on which I sail is the _Seronica_."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE CLEAREST CALL

By Brevard Mays Connor


"Don't worry," said the great surgeon. "She will pull through. She
has a fine constitution."

"She will pull through because _you_ are handling the case," the
nurse murmured, with an admiring glance.

"She will pull through," agreed the Reverend Paul Templeton,
"because I shall pray."

He did not see the ironical glance which passed between nurse and
doctor, materialists both. He had stooped and kissed his wife, who
lay on the wheeled table that was to carry her to the operating
room. She was asleep, for the narcotic had taken immediate effect.

For a moment he hung over her and then he moved aside. When the door
of the operating room had closed on the wheeled table with its
sheeted burden he stepped out on the little upper balcony beneath
the stars, knelt, and earnestly addressed himself to his Maker.

A distant clock struck eight. The operation would take an hour....

Humbly he prayed, but with superb confidence. He had lived a
blameless life, and his efforts were in behalf of a life equally
blameless. It was inconceivable that he who had given all and asked
nothing should be refused this, his first request. It was even more
inconceivable that his wife, who was so worthy of pardon, should be
condemned. Humbly he prayed, but not without assurance of a friendly
Auditor.

It was a sweet May night, satin-soft, blossom-scented. The south
wind was whispering confidences to the elms; the stars were
unutterably benign. Surely God was in His heaven, thought the
Reverend Paul Templeton.

Then up from the darkness beneath the trees came the low, thrilling
laugh of a girl. He lifted his face from his hands and stared,
scarce breathing, into the night, while his ears still held every
note of that low, thrilling laugh, which spoke of youth in love in
the springtime.

The black bulk of the hospital behind him faded into obscurity as
swiftly as a scene struck on a darkened stage. He was no longer on a
little upper porch, but in an old-fashioned summer-house, hidden
from the tactless moon by a mesh of honeysuckle in bloom. He was no
longer on his knees before his Maker, but sitting beside the girl
who had been Ellen McCartney.

She was dressed in white. She was so close he could feel the warmth
of her. Somehow, in that darkness, their hands met and clung,
shoulder touched shoulder--the fragrance of her hair in his
nostrils. The soft, womanly yielding of her body.

Now her palms were resting against his cheeks, drawing his head
down; now, as lightly as a butterfly upon a flower, her lips brushed
his one closed eye and then the other; now she laughed, a low,
thrilling laugh, which spoke of youth in love in the springtime.

Prayer had gone dry at its source, choked by the luxuriant
vegetation of memory. He remembered other kisses and thrilled in
sympathy with the delight of other time....

The distant clock struck nine, but he did not hear it. The shriek of
a woman in pain sliced through the silence but could not penetrate
the walls of his dream. The girl who had been Ellen McCartney lay in
his arms, her lips to his.

Then a hand fell upon his shoulder.

"Come," said the nurse, and slipped back into the room.

The Reverend Paul Templeton came back with a wrench to consciousness
of the time and place, and horror surged through his veins like a
burning poison. It was over--and he had not prayed! And worse! When
his whole being should have been prostrate in humble supplication he
had allowed it to walk brazenly erect among memories that at the
best were frivolous and at the worst--carnal! He seemed to hear a
voice saying:

"I am the Lord of Vengeance. Heavy is mine hand against them that
slight Me!"

Mastered by despair, he clung to the iron railing. What could he
hope of science when he had failed in his duty to faith? Somehow he
managed to struggle to his feet and gain the room.

The sheeted figure on the bed was very still, the face paler than
the pillow on which it lay. He crumpled down beside her and hid his
face, too sick with shame to weep. He _knew_ with a horrid certainty
that she was dead and that he had killed her.

And then:

"Paul!"

It was the merest wisp of sound, almost too impalpable to be human
utterance. He lifted his head and looked into the face of the great
surgeon.... He was smiling.

"Paul!"

He looked now into the pale face of his wife ... and _she_ was
smiling.

"There, there," said the great surgeon. "I told you she would come
back. Her constitution----"

"Constitution!" scoffed the nurse. "It was you."

"Or," smiled the surgeon, magnanimously, "your prayers, sir."

But the sick woman made a gesture of dissent.

"No," she said, "it was none of those things. I came back when I
remembered----"

"Paul," she whispered, "lean down."

He obeyed. Her palms fluttered against his cheeks, and, as lightly
as a butterfly on a flower, her lips brushed his one closed eye and
then the other. And then the girl who had been Ellen McCartney
laughed a low, thrilling laugh, which spoke of youth in love in the
springtime.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

GREATER LOVE HATH NO MAN

By Selwyn Grattan


The empty vial--the odour of bitter almonds--and in the chair what
had been a man.

On the desk this note:

  "Farewell. From the day of our marriage I have known. I love you.
  I love my friend. Better that I should go and leave you two to
  find happiness than that I should stay and the three of us wear
  out wretched lives. Again farewell--and bless you.

                                                        "Robert."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE GRETCHEN PLAN

By William Johnston


"And Solomon had seven hundred wives," read Pastor Brandt.

Gretchen Edeler sat up to listen. A new idea had come to her. A
distressing state of affairs existed in the village of Eisen. There
had gone to the war from the village over three hundred men. From
the war there had returned fifty-one--only fifty-one--and there in
Eisen were two hundred and eighty-one girls wanting husbands.

Of the fifty-one returned soldiers twenty had wives and families
already. Two had married during the war, married the nurses they had
had in the hospital. Hilda Sachs, the rich widow, had captured one.
That left just twenty-eight men available for
husbands--twenty-eight to two hundred and eighty-one girls.

Yet no marriages occurred. The men wished to marry as much as the
girls, but how could a man decide with so many to pick from? Thus
stood matters that Sunday morning.

After the service Gretchen waited to speak to Pastor Brandt.

"Everything in the Bible," she asked anxiously, "is it always
right?"

"Ja," the herr pastor affirmed, "the Bible always gives right."

"About everything?"

"Ja, about everything."

"The Bible says that Jacob had two wives and that Solomon had seven
hundred wives. Is it right for men to have many wives?"

"It was right in Bible days," affirmed the pastor guardedly. "In
those times many wives were needed to populate the land."

"Many wives are needed now to populate the land," asserted Gretchen.
"Why should not each man in Eisen take now ten wives?"

"It is against the law," declared the pastor.

"It is not against Bible law."

The pastor pondered ten minutes.

"Nein," he answered, "it is not against Bible law."

"It would be for the good of the Fatherland."

The pastor pondered twenty minutes.

"Ja," he decided, "it would be for the good of the Fatherland."

"We will do it," announced Gretchen. "Ten of us will take one
husband. Better a tenth of a husband than never any husband. Will
you marry us?"

The pastor pondered thirty minutes.

"Ja," he said at length, "for the good of the Fatherland."

Quickly Gretchen spread her news. Quickly the girls accepted the
Gretchen plan. Quickly they formed themselves into groups of ten and
selected a husband. Quickly the twenty-eight men accepted. What man
wouldn't?

Only Selma Kronk, the homeliest of homely old maids, was left
unmated. In indignant dismay she hastened to Frau Werner's
kaffee-klatch and unfolded to the married women assembled there the
schreckliche Gretchen plan.

"Impossible!" asserted Frau Stern.

"Unspeakable!" declared Frau Heitner.

"It must not be!" announced Frau Werner.

In outraged wrath they appealed to their husbands to interfere.

"It is for the good of the Fatherland," the husbands one and all
declared. "What man would not have ten wives if he could?"

They appealed to the Mayor, to the Governor, even to the Kaiser
himself, but in vain. To a man they welcomed the idea.

So the Gretchen plan was carried out. Each war hero took ten wives,
not only in Eisen, but throughout the land.

Nevertheless, Frau Werner and the other aggrieved respectable
advocates of monogamy had their revenge.

As invariably happens after a war, all the babies born were boy
babies.

"Aha!" cried Frau Werner exultantly, as each new birth was
announced. "Twenty years from now there will not be women enough to
go around. Each wife then will have to have ten husbands. I wonder
how the men will like that?"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE GLORY OF WAR

By M. B. Levick


He was an orderly in the hospital and had got the job through a
friend in his Grand Army Post. The work was not for a fastidious
man, but John was not fastidious. In his duties he affected the
bluff manner of a veteran, and, peering at the internes with a wise
squint, would say, "Oh, this ain't nothin'; an old soldier is used
to such things. If y' want t' see the real thing, jus' go to war."
And he would laugh at them and they would laugh at him.

He wore his G. A. R. emblem conspicuously on all occasions. At the
slightest chance he became a bore with long tales of fighting, of
how he had chased Johnny Reb and how _those_ were the days. The
students, still near enough to the classroom to hold a lingering
repugnance for the text-books' overemphasis on the Civil War, would
guy him, but John never suspected.

On Decoration Day he marched and attended as many exercises as he
could squeeze into the too short hours. He wore a committee ribbon
like a decoration for valour. Once he carried a flag in a parade,
and for weeks talked about Old Glory, the Stars and Stripes, and
regimental colours that had changed hands in distant frays.

And he had fought only to save his country, he would assert. He
didn't have no eye on Uncle Sam's purse, not he; he could take care
of himself, and if not, why, there was them as would. When the
youths accused him of sinking his pension, he turned hotly to remind
them of their lack of beard.

He was ever so ready to defend himself with an ancient vigour that
the students and the nurses were sorry when he fell ill. Perhaps his
campaigning had taken from his vitality, they surmised. The house
surgeon told them he would never get up. After that--and the
afterward was not long--John told his tales to more sober auditors.

He had been in bed a week and had begun to suspect the state of
affairs when he called to him one evening the youth who of all had
shown him the most deference.

"Sit down," he said, without looking the youngster in the eye; and
for a time there were heard only the noises of the day-weary ward.
Presently John spoke, in an apprehensive tone of confidences.

"I've been a soldier now for forty-five years," he said, "an' for
once I want to be just myself.... I kind o' like you, an' there
ain't nobody else I can talk to, for I ain't got any one....

"In '61 I was on my father's farm in Pennsylvani'. I was on'y a kid
then--fifteen--but when the war come I wanted the worst way to go.
But my mother, she cried an' begged me not to, an' my daddy said
he'd lick me, so I tried t' forget it.

"But I couldn't. Lots o' other boys was goin' away t' enlist an'
they was all treated like heroes. Ye'd 'a' thought they'd won the
war already by themselves the way folks carried on when they
left--the girls cryin' about 'em an' the teacher an' the minister
an' the circuit judge speakin' to 'em an' all the stay-at-homes mad
because they wasn't goin', too.

"It kept gettin' harder an' harder to work on the farm, an' finally
I said, 'Well, I'll go anyway.' I knew pa an' ma wouldn't change
their mind, so I didn't say nothin' to them. But I went to all the
other boys an' told _them_. 'I'm goin' away t' enlist,' I'd say, an'
when they'd laugh an' say, 'Why, y'r ma won't let ye,' I'd look wise
an' tell 'em to watch me, an' I'd strut aroun' an' wink sly-like.

"They got to talkin' about it so much I was scairt my dad would find
out, but he didn't, an' I held back as long as I could, because all
the other boys was lookin' up to me. I was a man, all right, then.
None o' 'em that went away was the mogul I was. The girls got wind
of it, too, an' I could see 'em out o' the tail o' my eye watchin'
me an' whisperin' an' sayin', girl-like, all the things the boys was
tryin' not to say. That on'y made the boys talk more, too.

"So after a few days I ran away. The first night I hung roun' near
the town an' after dark sneaked back to hear 'em talkin'. 'He'll be
back soon,' one feller said. Another, just to show he knew more,
spoke up, 'No, he won' come back 'less in blue or in a coffin.' An'
the others laughed.

"I thought that was fine--in blue or a coffin. 'You bet I won't;
I'm the man f'r that,' says I to myself.

"It took me three days to walk to the city. When I told the
recruitin' sergeant I wanted to be high corporal he laughed an'
pounded me an' put me through my paces. Then he said I couldn't be a
soldier. My eyes wasn't good enough.

"I cried at that; on'y a kid, y' know--the' was lots of 'em younger
than me fightin'. But I remembered the feller what said, 'He won't
come back 'cept in blue or a coffin,' so I went where the soldiers
was an' bummed an' hobnobbed with 'em till they let me help at
peelin' vegetables and pot-wrastlin' an' such things. Then I got to
be a sort o' water boy. My, I was proud!... But that on'y lasted a
month, an' I had to get out.

"I jus' couldn't go home without the blue, an' it seemed too soon to
get a coffin yet, so I went to New York an' stayed all through the
war. Nearly starved, too.

"After it was over I went back home. They didn't suspicion, o'
course, an' the first thing I knew I'd told 'em I'd been in the
army. Hadn't planned to, but some way it just popped out.

"Right away it was hail-fellow-well-met with them that had been at
the front, an' we were goin' roun' givin' oursel's airs an' the
girls seemed to think we was better than all the rest.... Well,
sometimes I....

"I was jus' a young fellow, y' know, an' kep' gettin' in deeper an'
deeper an' never thought it'd mean anything. When a man says, 'John,
you remember that clump o' trees the Fifty-eighth lay under at
Antietam?' why, you say, 'Yes.' An' the next time y'r tellin' about
Antietam you jus' throw in them trees without thinkin'. That's the
way it was with me. An' I read books to get my facks straight an' no
one never caught me nappin'. I used t' correct _them_.... At last I
got to believe it all myself....

"Then the G. A. R. Post was organized in our town.... An' so it
went.

"Well, it's been a long time. If I'd 'a' known in the first place
maybe it'd 'a' been different.... But it was my right, anyway,
wasn't it, now? Say, don't you think it was comin' to me? It wasn't
my fault. By God, I wanted to fight! Jus' one chance an' so help
me----

"They cheated me out o' it an' I got even. That's all it was. I
never took no pension. I've had the glory, like 'em.... I've paid
for it.... I on'y took my own.

"And the Post will bury me."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE AVIATOR

By Hornell Hart


"The French Government declines to accept your services." The words
said themselves over and over in his ears in the drone of the motor,
as the monoplane climbed into the velvet night sky. Was that
diplomatic blunder of two years ago so utterly unforgivable? Was
exile not enough? Would the Republic deny him even the right to
fight under her colours? "The French Government declines to accept
your services." The recruiting officer had said it, and General
Joffre had reiterated the unrelenting statement in reply to his
direct appeal for enlistment. And now the drone of the propeller,
the hum of the motor, and the rush of the air through the braces
whispered the words ceaselessly into his ears as the great wings
carried him up into the darkness.

Below, the ghostly searchlight fingers of the fortress reached up,
groping toward him. The central searchlight of the fortress was
playing on a French cruiser which had crept up recklessly close to
the fort and was pouring shells in rapid salvos up into the
battlements on the hill. The sparks of fire from the ship's side
seemed but tiny points of light far down below. Momentarily balls of
flame appeared above and around the dim outlines of the
fortifications, and the smoke of bursting shells drifted wanly
across the white, searching pencils of light. Down there France,
undaunted, grappled the Turk in the darkness. From the farther shore
distant lights of Asia twinkled in the night.

Behind that central searchlight, Henri had said, lay the entrance to
the powder magazine. That passageway was the vital spot of the
fortress. An explosion there would ignite the ammunition and shatter
the entire centre of the fortifications.

A searchlight came wheeling across the sky and shot past just behind
the monoplane. The flash of the guns on the hill were now just
beneath him, and their roar formed a surging background of sound to
the whirr of the machine. He swept in a huge curve toward a position
back of the fortress. The searchlight was circling the sky again.
For a fraction of a second the aeroplane was silhouetted in its full
glare. The beam wavered and returned zigzagging to pick him up
again. This time it caught and followed him. A shell burst below
him. If one fragment of shrapnel should strike the nitroglycerine
which he carried France would profit little from this last ride of
his.

The fortress was not far behind him. He swept about and pointed the
nose of the monoplane downward straight toward the base of the
central searchlight. Its beam had ceased to play on the battleship
and was lifting swiftly toward him. Suddenly its glare caught him
straight in the eyes. He gripped the controls and steered tensely
for that dazzling target.

"The French Government declines to accept your services." He smiled
grimly. They could not well decline them now. The air rushed past
him so swiftly that it seemed stiff like a stream of water under
high pressure. Below him at that point of light death stood smiling.
The crash of a shell bursting behind him was lost in the gale of
wind in his ears. The light grew swiftly larger and the outlines of
the battlements became distinct. "The French Government----" the
world ended in a crash of blistering whiteness.

"He was pointed directly at the magazine," said Abdul, the gunner.
"If the shell from the French cruiser had not struck him we should
all by now have been with Allah."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

LOYALTY

By Clarence Herbert New


They had been playing "cut-in" Bridge until the Charltons went home,
at midnight. Instead of following them Norris returned to the
library with Steuler and his wife. In the old days Barclay Norris
had asked Barbara to marry him; but Steuler's impetuous love-making
appealed to her imagination, and Norris had remained their loyal
friend. In the library, Steuler yawned--without apology. Extracting
a suit-case from the coat-closet, he started for the stairs.

"You and Barbara may sit up all night, my friend; but me--I haf
been travelling, I cannot keep my eyes open! Good-night!"

Norris stopped him with a slight motion of the head, nodded to a
chair by the table, lighted a cigar rather deliberately, and sat
down.

"There's a matter I want to discuss with you, Max--_now_.... Don't
go away, Bab. It concerns you--rather deeply." He inspected his
cigar critically during a few moments of silence. "Max, you may have
heard that my law practice brought me occasionally in touch with the
Government, but you didn't know I was officially connected with the
Secret Service. When we were drawn into this war your probable
sympathies were considered. But you enlisted for the Spanish War,
though you never got farther than Chattanooga. You took the oath of
allegiance. We considered your loyalty had been demonstrated, so we
trusted you. We've had a constant fight against treachery, however,
in the most undreamed-of places. You were again suspected. Is it
necessary for me to say more? Lieutenant Schmidt was arrested ten
minutes after you left him this morning. I saw you receive from him
specifications for the Wright Multiplane, the Maxim Chlorine Shell,
and the perfected 'Lake' Submarine. I also know you have a copy of
the State Department's code-book."

Barbara Steuler had remained standing at the end of the table, her
eyes dilating with an expression of incredulous, outraged amazement.

"Barclay! Are you _insane_? Are you accusing _Max_ of these horrible
things? My _husband_?"

Norris spoke gently but firmly.

"I'm stating facts, Bab--not accusing. Because I've been your
friend, and his, I'm giving him this chance to return the papers and
code before it's too late. At this moment I'm the only one who
really knows. He meant to sail on Grunwald's yacht for Christiania
at sunrise. There's still time for him to get aboard and escape. I'm
personally answerable for the unknown man I've been following
to-day!"

She whirled upon her husband, saw, with horror, that he was making
no denial, that he was looking at their old friend with a gleam of
hatred in his eyes. Presently he pulled open a drawer in the table,
thrusting one hand into the back part of it.

"So! You efen suspect where I put the codebook? Yess? Well, it iss
the fortune of war, I suppose. You think I will not arrested be, if
I reach the yacht before morning? Nein? You are the only one who
knows--yet? Und suppose I nefer come back? My wife I mus' leave
with the man who always haf lofed----" There was a flash, a
stunning report. Norris staggered up from his chair and pitched
headlong upon the floor.

"Max! _Max!_ A traitor! A murderer! My God!"

He took a canvas-bound book from the drawer, thrusting it hastily
into the suit-case, then fetched overcoat and hat from the closet.
In his hurry he overlooked the automatic pistol which lay upon the
table. So intent was he upon escaping with what he had that he
seemed to have forgotten her entirely. But a low, gasping voice made
him whirl about at the door.

"Another step--and I'll--_kill_ you!" The pistol steadily covered
his heart. (He'd seen her shoot.)

"Put that book on the table." He hesitated, meditating a spring
through the doorway. "When I count three! One!..." With a muttered
curse he took the code from the suit-case.

"Empty your pockets!"

There was no mistaking the expression in her eyes. He emptied his
pockets.

"Now--_go_! Without the suit-case!"

"Barbara! You would haf me leave you! Like this!" Her face was
colourless, in her eyes a brooding horror, a dazed consciousness of
that motionless body on the floor behind the table.

"My people fought at Lexington and Concord--for principles dearer
than life to them. You swore allegiance to those principles, to
their flag. And you are--_this_! You've murdered our loyal
friend--when he was giving a traitor a chance, at great personal
risk! Go! _Quickly!_"

As the front door slammed she ran to the window, watched him down
the block. A man who did such things might return later, catch her
unarmed, secure the papers. Her brain worked automatically. There
was no safe place to conceal them. They must be destroyed at once!
Tearing the book to pieces, she piled the leaves upon the andirons
in the fireplace with the other papers, then lighted the heap. When
they were entirely destroyed a patter of footsteps echoed from the
stairs; a little figure in pajamas came peeking around the porti√®re.
(A thrill of passionate thankfulness ran through her that he
resembled _her_ people, with no trace of the alien blood.)

"Mo-ther! What was that big noise?"

"Possibly some one's automobile, dear--a blowout or a back-fire,
you know." She forced herself to speak quietly, standing so that he
couldn't look behind the table.

"Mo-ther, who was down here wiv you?"

"Uncle Barclay, sweetheart. But--oh, God!--he's gone now."
(Norris's love had been the truer, deeper affection; she'd known it
for some time.) "Run along back to beddy, darling. Mother will come
up presently."

She had a feeling of suffocation as the boy hugged her impetuously
and padded softly upstairs. As she listened to his careful progress
another sound, a faint rustling from behind the table made her heart
stop beating for a second. With trembling limbs she leaned across
the table and looked. The dead man lay in a slightly different
position; there was a barely perceptible movement of the chest. She
reached breathlessly for the telephone.

"Give me Bryant 9702, please!... Yes! Doctor Marvin's house!
_Quickly!_"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

MOSES COMES TO BURNING BUSH

By W. T. Larned


Melting snow in the spring and cloud-bursting rains in the fall
poured their floods from the foothills, through the arroyo, and were
licked up and lost in the arid lands below. The Mormons came, dammed
the outlet in the ridge--and, lo! there was a lake. Thus Burning
Bush, Cortez County, New Mexico, was created, on the edge of green
alfalfa fields. And because there was coal the railroad ran a spur
to collect it; and because there was a railroad cowmen came in with
their beeves and sheepmen with their mutton and wool.

In the terms of a now-discarded census classification, the "souls"
composing Cortez County's population were officially designated as
"white men, Mormons, and Mexicans." Also, there were Indians, who
could not vote and did not count. Finally, there was Ah Sin.

Ah Sin was no common coolie. He had been, indeed, the prize pupil at
the Chinese mission on the Coast. He could speak and read English,
do sums with his head in American arithmetic, and recite whole
passages from the Bible. With a cash capital accumulated in ten
years of dogged domestic service, he had come to Burning Bush and
opened a general store. It was the only one in town, and it paid.

Ah Sin--smiling, courteous, honest--worked fifteen hours a day,
and put his profits in the bank. In time he would go back to China a
rich man. Then Moses came.

That Moses should come to Burning Bush was inevitable. Burning Bush
had begun to boom. The odour of its prosperity had been wafted afar,
and the nostrils of the Israelite knew it.

The new store, lavishly painted in greens and yellows, was the most
noticeable thing in town. When Moses had moved in, even the
Montezuma hotel seemed to shrink. It had two show windows of pure
plate glass--their contents tagged with legends proclaiming cut
prices. Across the full width of its imposing false-front elevation
there appeared this sign:

                    STOP! LOOK! LISTEN!
                    THE ORIGINAL MOSES
                    GOLDEN RULE EMPORIUM.

With such simple lures are the simple enticed. Burning Bush stopped,
looked--and listened to maneuvering Moses. It is the new thing that
catches the eye and fills the ear. Ah Sin had forgotten to beat his
gong. Custom fell off, and found its way to the newcomer. In a month
or so the Celestial hardly held his own.

Ah Sin, losing trade, was troubled. Meeting the cut in prices did
not bring back his customers. With Oriental taste he organized a
novel window display--in vain. Something was the matter. But what?

Ah Sin's guileless mind could not grasp it. Thrown on his own mental
resources, he grappled as best he could with the problem. The Bible
teachers had taught him that the Jews were a race dispersed and
paying the penalty of their transgressions. Ah Sin believed this to
be literally the truth. Yet he, a Christian, seemed about to be
overcome by the competition of an Israelite.

"Velly funny," said Ah Sin to himself. "Heblew make good. Chlistian
catchee hell."

He strolled out into the street, his shop being empty for the time,
and contemplated long and earnestly the place of his competitor
across the way. Something about the sign seemed to puzzle him and to
make him think. He shook his head. Then he backed off and looked
critically at his own shop, with its modest device: "Ah
Sin--General Store." Presently his impassive face lighted up;
and that night his sleep was shortened by an hour devoted to a
search of the Scriptures. Had not his teachers told him to turn to
the Bible in time of doubt and trial? They were not here to counsel
him, but he had a clew.

He awoke next morning clothed and girded with strength. And all that
day, when business permitted, he laboured on a canvas sign, which he
lettered himself, with brush and India ink, smiling contentedly the
while.

It was Curly Bob, foreman of the Frying Pan outfit on Sun Creek, who
saw it first. Coming into town at a lope, in quest of cut plug, his
roving eye was arrested by the new announcement of Ah Sin. By
temperament and training Curly was unemotional, but, seeing Ah Sin's
handiwork, he pulled so suddenly on his spade bit that the cayuse
fell back on its haunches. For there, in the eyelids of the morning,
Ah Sin, seeking an everlasting sign, had flung forth a banner that
prevailed against the Jew. In black, bold letters a foot high, it
beckoned to the trade of Burning Bush:

                    STOP! LOOK! LISTEN!
                    THE ORIGINAL SIN
                    TEN PER CENT. FORGIVEN FOR CASH

Whereupon Curly Bob, swearing softly in admiration, blew himself to
tobacco for the whole outfit.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

BUSINESS AND ETHICS

By Redfield Ingalls


In the dingy office of A. Slivowitz & Co., manufacturers of dyes,
things were humming. Every clerk was bent over his desk, hard and
cheerfully at work, and there was a general air of bustle and
efficiency.

That was because A. Slivowitz stood in the doorway of his private
office looking on.

The portly head of the firm watched the scene complacently for a few
minutes. Then, catching the eye of his young but efficient private
secretary, he beckoned him with an air of mystery to the inner
sanctum.

The secretary, who was sharp of eye and alert of manner, rose at
once and followed, though it was not the custom of A. Slivowitz to
summon him thus. His employer sank ponderously into his swivel chair
and motioned to the secretary to shut the door and take a seat. Then
for a minute or so he was silent, playing with his massive gold
watch chain and studying the young man through puckered lids. But if
the secretary was perturbed he did not show it.

"Mr. Sloane," began Slivowitz, at length, in his heavy voice, "you
been with the firm now how long--six or five months, ain't it?"

"Nearly six," the dapper young man confirmed briskly.

"You're a smart feller, Mr. Sloane," his employer continued,
examining the huge diamond on his left hand. "Already you picked it
up a lot about dyeing. A fine dyer you should make. Now, Mr. Sloane,
I'm going to fire you."

The secretary's eyebrows went up a trifle, but otherwise he showed
no great perturbation. Perhaps a certain elephantine playfulness in
the big man's tone reassured him.

"By me business is good," Slivowitz went on, with a fat chuckle.
"I'm a business man, Mr. Sloane, first and last, and nobody don't
never put nothing over by me."

Knowing something of his employer's business methods, Sloane could
have amplified. What he said was: "Thanks to your royal purple, Mr.
Slivowitz. You've about cornered the trade."

"They can't none of 'em touch it, that purple; posi-tive-ly," agreed
the dyer, with much satisfaction. "But"--and he became
confidential--"between me and you strictly, this here now Domestic
Dye Works, they got it a mauve what gives me a pain."

He hitched his chair closer and laid a pudgy hand on Sloane's knee.
"I'm going to fire you," he repeated, with a wink. "I want you
should go by the Domestic Dye Works and get it a job. Find out about
the formula for their mauve--you understand me--and come back mit
it, and you get back your job and a hundred or seventy-five
dollars."

Sloane started. For a moment he stared at his employer, his face
going red and pale again; then he rose to his feet.

"Sorry, Mr. Slivowitz, but I can't consider it," he said.

"Oh, come now, Mr. Sloane!" protested the dyer, with a laugh,
leaning back in his chair. He produced a thick cigar and bit off the
end. "These here scruples does you credit, Mr. Sloane, but business
is business; and, take it from me, Mr. Sloane, you can't mix
business up mit ethics. Them things is all right, but you gotta skin
the other guy before he skins you first, ain't it?"

"That may be----" began the secretary, as he moved toward the
door.

"_May_ be? Ain't I just told you it _is_?" Slivowitz paused in the
act of striking a match to glare. "You needn't to be scared they'll
find it out where you come from and fire you, neither, Mr. Sloane,"
he added, more quietly and with a cunning expression. "I got brains,
I have. A little thing like recommends to a smart man like
_me_----" The match broke. He flung it into the cuspidor and
selected another.

Sloane paused with his hand on the doorknob. "Mr. Slivowitz----"
he began again.

"Of course," continued his employer, "I could make it--well, a
hundred fifteen, Mr. Sloane. But, believe me, not a cent more,
posi-_tive_-ly."

The secretary shook his head decidedly.

"What?" roared Slivowitz. "Y' mean to tell me y' ain't goin' to do
it? _All_ right; you're fired anyhow, you understand me." Then with
an evil glitter in his eyes, "And if you don't bring by me that
formula, you get fired from the Domestic Dye Works; _and you don't
get it no job nowheres else, too_! Now, you take your choice." This
time the match lighted successfully.

Sloane smiled. "Quite impossible," he said. "I was going to resign
in a day or two, anyway."

"Eh?" exclaimed the head of the firm, his jaw dropping and his
florid face paling a little. In the face of a number of
possibilities he forgot the match in his fingers.

"Yes. You see--you'll know it sooner or later--the Domestic Dye
Works sent me here to learn the formula for your royal purple."

And the door slammed shut behind A. Slivowitz's private secretary.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

NORTH OF FIFTY-THREE

By Mary Woodbury Caswell


The short winter day of Alaska was brightening as Gertrude pushed
her chair back from the breakfast table and announced that she
proposed to go at once for her constitutional. Her brother placidly
assented, but Keith interposed with a worried look.

"Hadn't you better go with her, Bob? I suppose I've grown to be an
old granny, but since Jacques told us of that outlaw who threatened
to kidnap a white girl for his wife, I don't like to have Gertrude
get out of sight."

The girl bent over him caressingly.

"Don't worry, dear," she said. "Jacques had been drinking hard when
he told you of this mythical exile. Besides, I am no Helen of Troy
to be abducted for my beauty. I'd really much rather have Bob stay
with you."

And she kissed him, put on warm wraps, took her snowshoes and
started for the daily tramp that had kept her fit ever since she had
come up on the last boat, hastily summoned by a cable from Bob when
her fianc√© had his shoulder crushed, and it would be impossible for
the young men to return to the States with their stake. She and Bob
had nursed him into convalescence, but it had been a hard winter for
him, and she did not wonder that he had developed some nervousness,
though she considered his fear for her wholly unnecessary, as,
indeed, did Bob.

When she was a half-mile from the cabin and a slight rise of ground
hid it from her, she saw a dog team approaching, and smiled,
thinking that Keith would surely consider that danger was near. As
it met her the driver touched his cap, and she had a swift
impression of a very different type than she had recently met, and
one that made Jacques's fantastic tale seem less absurd. As she
involuntarily glanced back she saw, and now with alarm, that the
stranger had turned and was coming toward her. He stopped the dogs
close to her and inquired courteously, and with a foreign accent:

"Can you tell me, mademoiselle, how near I am to some residence?"

"Our cabin is over the hill," she replied quietly, though with
growing terror, which was justified, as he sprang toward her,
swathing her in a blanket, so that she could neither speak nor
struggle, and placing her on the sled.

She could not have told whether it was hours or minutes before she
was lifted, carried into a cabin, and the blanket unfolded from her,
while a savage-looking husky dog growled a greeting. Her captor
shook off his heavy outer coat, removed his cap, and with
exaggerated deference said:

"Mademoiselle, pray remove your parka and permit that I relieve you
of your snowshoes. I do myself the honour, mademoiselle, to offer
you marriage."

Resolutely conquering her fear, Gertrude looked steadily at him. The
man evidently was, or had been, a gentleman; but what must his life
have been to bring him to this! As composedly as she could she
answered:

"I must decline your offer. Pray permit me to return home."

"Ah, no, mademoiselle. I fear I cannot allow that. As for
marriage--as you please, but in any case you must remain here."

"Not alive," she said.

"Ah, but, mademoiselle, how not?" he asked, in mockery of courtesy
more pronounced. "It is not so easy to die"--with a sudden bitter
sadness.

"There are many ways," she replied. "Here is one."

And, seizing a dog whip lying near, she struck the husky a sharp
blow and, as he furiously leaped to his feet, flung herself upon the
floor before him. He fastened his teeth in her arm as his master
grasped his throat, and the struggle shook the cabin. At last the
man broke the dog's hold and dragged him to the door. Gertrude's
heavy clothing had saved her arm from anything but a superficial
wound, but as he bound it up she said:

"The dog will not forget, and if he fails me I can find another
way."

His face, which had paled, flushed a dark red as he hastily spoke.

"For God's sake do not think--but why should you not? You are free,
mademoiselle. Such courage shows me I am not quite the brute I
fancied I had become, and also that there is one woman in the world
whose 'no' assuredly does not mean 'yes.' I will take you home at
once, on the faith of a Marovitch."

She stared at him incredulously and said slowly:

"Is it possible--are you Count Boris Marovitch?"

"Yes"--in deep wonder--"that is my name, but how could you know?"

"This letter should interest you," she said. "It is from Varinka. I
was at a convent school in Paris with her." And she watched him
excitedly as he read aloud the passage she indicated.

  "Do you remember my telling you of my cousin Boris, who was sent
  to Siberia for killing Prince ---- in a duel? It was supposed
  that he was shot while trying to escape, but the guard has
  confessed that he was bribed to assist him, and he may be living.
  The Czar would gladly pardon him if he would return, his homicidal
  tendencies being valuable in the present war crisis. And Olga has
  steadfastly refused to marry any one else, so----"

A sharply drawn breath interrupted the reading, and the letter fell
to the floor from his shaking hands as he looked at her, his face
white and drawn.

"Mademoiselle, it is too much," he gasped. "Your courage--your
generosity--I insult you unforgivably and you give me back honour,
love, life--I cannot say----" And he sank into a chair and
covered his face with his hands.

She went over to him and laid her hand gently on his shoulder.

"I am glad you are happy, Count," she said, "and I am sure we shall
be very good friends. Please take me home now."

They met Bob halfway, striding along with an anxious face, his rifle
over his shoulder. "This is my brother, Mr. Stacey," said Gertrude.
"Bob, this is Count Marovitch, of whom Varinka wrote. He starts
to-morrow by dog train to the States on his way to Russia."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE OLD THINGS

By Jessie Anderson Chase


Like Sir Roger's neighbours peering over the hedge, I had daily
observed, over my stone wall, a very old gentleman in his shirt
sleeves, who pleasantly gave me the r√¥le of Spectator. A
New-Englander of the elder type, with the heavy bent head of the
thinker; but, particularly, with the piercing yet so kindly humorous
blue eye that loses none of its colour with age, but seems to grow
more vivid and vital with the same years that steal from the hair
its hue of life and from the walnut cheek its glowing red.

Such an eye, to a lawyer like myself, accustomed to look for a human
document in every human face, seemed the very epitome of eighty
years: a carefree boyhood among _contemporaries_--in house
furnishings, in barn and pigsty, orchard and gardens; a youth that
sees already a new generation in most of these companions of his
earthly pilgrimage; a middle age, forced out of the romantic sense
of companionship on the road, into the persistent and finally
triumphant view of using environment for ends of its own; and then
old age, free to return and lavish forgotten endearments upon the
"old things!" This or the other "landmark," dear, and familiar from
life's beginnings. These periods, all slipping unnoticed into their
successors, yet each possessing a distinct and tangible outline and
colour, had all had their turn at my neighbour's blue eyes. And the
look that comes only at the end, when the life has been prodigal of
response and of an unswerving fidelity in the storing up of
values--that was the look that I valued as a thing of price.

It was a day of late summer that brought me more directly face to
face with its beauty and gravity. The old gentleman appeared, in his
shirt sleeves, but with plenty of ceremony in his quiet demeanour,
at the door of my little "portable" law office, at the edge of the
orchard.

"I am told, sir," he began, "that you are an attorney at law."

I bowed, and offered him a chair but he continued standing.

"I have come," he said, "to request your services in drawing up my
last will and testament--that is," he serenely emended, "in case
your vacation time is subject to such interruption."

While I was formulating my assent he continued:

"You have no doubt, since coming into this rather communicative
neighbourhood, been informed that my son owns the homestead."

The kind, keen old eyes took on a look of what George Eliot names
"an enormous patience with the way of the world."

"Everything belongs to John and Mary. But there are one or two
little old things that they don't care about. They're up in the
lean-to. The old mirror that, as a lad, I used to see my face in
over my mother's shoulder, it's still holding for me the picture of
my mother smiling up at me. And the old ladder-back chair that she
used to sit in and cuddle me; and switch, me, too--and maybe that
took the most love of all. That's all. John and Mary don't want
them. They're only old things, like myself. It's natural, perfectly
natural. At their age I most probably felt just so."

He paused and looked through the lattice, where the reddened
vine-leaves were beginning to fall.

"The young leaf-buds pushing off the old leaves. It's nature."

Before sunset--for the old man was strangely impatient--I had his
"will" signed, witnessed, and sealed. The old mirror and chair were
to go to a wee, odd little old lady, called in the neighbourhood
"Miss Tabby" Titcomb because of her forty-odd cats, except for which
she lived alone.

"Little Ellen," _he_ called her, as he fondly spoke of their school
days together. "Mother would have been well content if we'd hit it
off together, Ellen and I. But a boy is as apt as not, when urged
one way, to fly off in another; and I was at the skittish age.

"I've never said this before to any man, sir, but I'd have been a
better husband to Ellen. Mary was a faithful wife, and better than I
deserved. But she was not just aware, like Ellen, of where to bear
on hard and where to go a little easy. That's what a man needs in a
woman, sir. Ellen always knew just when and where."

The next morning, which was Saturday, I was riding down Bare Hill
Road--as it chanced, right past Miss Tabby's--when my horse shied;
and that tiny old lady, with an enormous gray cat beside her, rose
up from behind the lilac bushes. Bigger people than "little Ellen"
have been frightened by Prince's antics, but she quietly put her
hand on his restive neck as if he were only a little larger kitten,
and then spoke to me in a soft little purr of a voice:

"I've heard--and you'll excuse me--that you're a lawyer, Mr.
Alden; and I've a small matter I don't wish to entrust to any one
here, being private. It's a letter for Mr. Thomas Sewall, to be
delivered upon my demise, which I feel is about to take place." She
spoke with a little note of relief, as if from some long strain.

I took the small envelope.

"It's just the cats," she was moved to confide further; "the little
ones and the smart ones will all find friends. But the two _old
ones_! Mr. Sewall has a notion for the old things. And"--here she
hesitated long, while I breathlessly assured her of my best care for
the letter--"there's--somewhat in the note _besides_ the cats,"
she brought out bravely. "You'll make sure it doesn't fall into John
and Mary's hands?"

This was Saturday morning. Sunday, as I listened absent-mindedly to
the slow toll of the meeting-house bell, my houskeeper remarked, on
bringing in my coffee:

"Did you notice, sir? It was eighty-six. There's an old man and an
old woman, both just the same age, in the village, died in the
night."

The old chair, upon which--when they were young together--the
little Tom had been spanked and comforted; and the mirror, still
treasuring the picture of the round, saucy phiz over his mother's
shoulder, were offered at auction and bid in for a trifle by me. I
would have paid gold sovereigns for them, but not into the hands of
John and Mary! The cats, likewise, sit by the hearth, on which was
burned to ashes the letter "not _entirely_" about their disposal.

And the "Old Things" that cherished these earthly companions? The
minister--himself a rare "old thing"--preached a funeral sermon
for the two so strangely united by death; and his thin voice, like
the tone of an old, cracked violin, still haunts me:

"Their youth is renewed like the eagle's.... And they shall run and
not be weary, they shall walk and not faint."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE FORCED MARCH

By Hornell Hart


Intermittently, when the snow ceased falling for a moment, Wojak
could see the regiments ahead, black against the white fields,
crawling interminably over the hilltop under the dull sky. Wojak was
a burly, bearded fellow. These winter days pleased him. He liked the
tingle that came with marching in the cold air. He liked the dull,
rhythmic "scruff" of the hundreds of feet as the regiment swung
along, welded by its months of marching into a living unity.

This was his own country they were marching through. His homestead
lay not twenty miles away, near this very road. As he trudged along
thoughts of Sophy and little Stephan kept slipping into his mind.

At the crest of the hill the regiment came to a halt. Back from the
road, half hidden in trees that were cut sharp and black against the
snow and the sky, stood the ruin of a house.

"Just so stands my house," thought Wojak. "Behind, among the trees,
should be the pigsty to the left, the stable to the right."

He turned and waded through the newly fallen snow toward the
dwelling. Charred beams at one end showed where a fire had been
checked by the snowfall. In the yard beneath the fluffy new snow the
old layer had evidently been tramped. Behind the house he found the
pigsty and the stable.

"But the stable is bigger than mine," he murmured.

He looked in. A pile of hay was in the corner, and on it lay some
rags. The stable was so dark that Wojak thought he saw a child lying
there. He went over to the corner. On the hay was a yellow head, the
round cheeks streaked with tears. The child was sleeping, but its
breath came in little sobs. With clumsy gentleness the soldier
picked the baby up.

"Stephan had curls like that," he whispered.

As he stepped out into the light the child awoke. A chubby arm
slipped about the burly neck, and the blue eyes looked at him with
the beginning of a smile. But in a moment the fact that this was not
father, but a strange man, came over the baby, and he began to sob,
not angrily, but with a worn anguish that gripped Wojak's heart.

The company was falling in after the halt when he came to the road.
The curly head lay close to his bearded face, and a great clumsy
hand protected the little body.

"Where did you get that, Wojak?" growled the lieutenant, staring
blankly at the sorrowful little bundle. "Leave the kid and fall in,"
he commanded. "There's no time for nonsense on this march."

Wojak started to protest, but the habit of obedience was too strong.
Sullenly he stood the baby in the snow and took his place in the
ranks. The child's sobs turned to a heartbroken wail.

"Forward, march!" commanded the officer, and the company moved away
down the road. Wojak looked back and saw the tiny arms stretched out
after him while snowflakes settled on the yellow head. Long after
the hilltop was hidden in swirling snow he seemed to see them and to
hear the wail of the orphaned baby.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The sun was setting when the army bivouacked four miles from Wojak's
farm. The orders were that no leaves of absence should be granted;
but he knew the sentinel on guard, and home was too near to be left
unseen for another four months.

The stars were glittering from an all but clear sky when he slipped
silently through the lines and started down the familiar roads
toward Sophy and Stephan. Four months was a terrible length of time.
The passage of armies had marked the country. The great tree by the
cottage of Ivanovicz had been shattered by a shell and had crashed
through the roof. Jablonowski's barns had been burned. The windows
of the church at the corners were shattered and a great hole had
been shot in the steeple. Wojak walked faster, and a twinge of
anxiety came over him as he entered the lane that led up to his
barnyard. His heart stopped: the thatch of the stable had been
burned and only the walls were standing. His eyes strained for a
glimpse of the house. It was not there. A few charred beams marked
the place where his home had stood.

He ran nearer. Snow had covered everything. Beside the place where
the door had been was a white mound with a stick standing in the
earth at its head. To the stick was nailed a little shoe. Wojak
seized it with shaking hands.

"Stephan!" he choked. "My little Stephan!"

After a while he looked up. Looming above him was a man on horseback
who had ridden up unheard through the muffling snow.

"You are under arrest," said the voice of the lieutenant.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

APPROXIMATING THE ULTIMATE WITH AUNT SARAH

By Charles Earl Gaymon


Aunt Sarah was sixty-three years old. Uncle John was sixty-four
years old.

If you spoke to Aunt Sarah about any new fringe on the tapestry of
the intellectual loom she would say:

"Oh, yes, we 'proximated that line of thought in 1893. It is near,
but not quite the ultimate."

If you spoke to Uncle John about Schopenhauer he would reply:

"I don't take much stock in them new-fangled cultivators."

Uncle John and Aunt Sarah had lived together in the old homestead
for thirty-eight years.

Aunt Sarah always had intellectual curiosity: she had left the old
Baptist church in her girlhood to join a joy cult; she had followed
with her mental telescope the scintillating trajectory of William
James's flight through the philosophic heavens of America; she had
known about eugenics long before the newspapers had made the subject
popular knowledge, and she had played in the musty, rickety garret
of occultism at a time when the most daring minds in science were
sitting tight in the seats of the scornful. But there was a shadow
in the sunlight of Aunt Sarah's mental advancement, an opaque spot
in the crystal of her mysticism, an unresolved seventh in the
harmony of her simple life in the Wisconsin backwoods--

She was married.

She was married to Uncle John!

At six o'clock in the evening of June 1, 1915, Aunt Sarah glanced up
from reading Bennett's "Folk Ways and Mores" as Uncle John entered
the kitchen door. Uncle John had just come from performing the
vespertime chores.

"Pa, we shall have to get a divorce!" said Aunt Sarah, shutting
Bennett with determination. "Marriage is a worn-out convention; it
is only one of the thousand foolish folk ways that hinder the
advancement of science among the masses."

"Very well, ma."

"We _will_ get a divorce."

"I quite agree, ma."

"Don't attempt logic with me, John. I said that we would get a
divorce."

Uncle John shook his head. "When will it be?" he asked.

"To-morrow."

Uncle John smiled, dropped his armful of kindling into the wood box
behind the kitchen range, and began to lay the Brobdingnagian
bandana handkerchief that served them for a tablecloth.

Aunt Sarah finished the preparation of the bacon and onions and set
the coffee pot back when it began to boil.

After supper Uncle John read the seed catalogue and Aunt Sarah
resumed her Bennett.

The following afternoon Judge Thompson, who lived in the biggest and
best house in the little county seat, was surprised to see from his
chair in the big bay window an antiquated carriage drawn by a
retired farm horse draw up before his cast-iron negro hitching post.
In the carriage were Aunt Sarah and Uncle John.

Judge Thompson was on the porch in time to receive his guests.

"We've come to get a divorce," said Aunt Sarah, with a direct gaze;
then she added, with the _sang froid_ of one who is wise, "What'll
it cost?"

The judge motioned them to seats in the wicker chairs on the porch,
and then replied:

"But you must have grounds----"

"Everybody knows it. Incompatibility of temperament."

And the judge, smiling, humoured Aunt Sarah, for he knew her and the
community in which she lived. "It will cost you just ten dollars,"
he said.

"Make out the paper," Aunt Sarah replied.

One hour later Uncle John and Aunt Sarah left the judge's house
together, separated for life.

Moses, their horse, looked at them out of the corner of his good eye
as they approached the carriage.

Uncle John paused, but Aunt Sarah stepped firmly into the vehicle.

Uncle John followed her and took up the reins.

Moses knew the way home by a clairvoyant sense, and he took that way
at his own pace of prophet-like dignity.

At the door of the old homestead Uncle John handed Aunt Sarah down
from her seat in silence. Then he put Moses into his stall. And when
he returned to the house he found Aunt Sarah beaming upon him
through her gold-rimmed spectacles from her place at the table,
which was loaded with a supper such as she alone could cook.

Aunt Sarah was jubilant. She was living at last with a man to whom
she was not married; no longer was there a blot on the scutcheon of
her intellectual progress; no longer did a black beetle mar the
pellucid amber of her simple life of Advanced Ideas; no longer could
the acolytes, in off moments when they were not engaged in trundling
the spheres through the macrocosm, gaze sternly down upon her
through interstellar space and say:

"Aunt Sarah is nearly, but not quite, an intellectual."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE HORSE HEAVER

By Lyman Bryson


"For why should you be tired?" demanded his wife, splashing her arms
viciously in the suds as she finished the day's rinsing. "You've
nothing to do but shovel dirt all day and rest when your boss ain't
looking."

"Gwan, I'm a hard-working man," said Kallaher. "And, what's more, I
can kick about it whenever I want to without any remarks from
yourself. I'm tired. When's supper?"

"Supper is any time when I can get my arms dry and get a good
breath." Mrs. Kallaher began belligerently to get his supper.

Kallaher stretched his short legs out in front of him and leaned
back in his chair. "It was a hard day," he said gently. "As if it
wasn't enough to have me breaking my back with the shovel and all, a
fool drove his horse too close to the ditch, and the dumb beast fell
in on top of me."

"That's likely--now, ain't it?--and you being here to tell about
it!"

"Believe it or not, it happened." Kallaher folded his hands across
the place where he didn't wear a belt and sighed. "But I put him out
again and went on with my work without taking a rest or nothing."

Mrs. Kallaher might have tried again to express her incredulity, but
just then old Mother Coogan, next-door neighbour, thrust a red
excited face through the kitchen door.

"Mary Kallaher, is your man home?"

"Why shouldn't he be?"

Mrs. Coogan entered and stood, one hand clutching a newspaper, the
other pointing dramatically at Kallaher. "It may be so, but he don't
look it," she said.

Before they could question her she began reading from the paper:
"Mike Kallaher, a ditch digger on the new Twelfth Street sewer, is a
small man but a mighty. A horse, driven too near the ditch to-day,
fell in. 'Begorra,' said Mike, 'can't a man work in peace?' He laid
down his shovel, spat on his hands, and heaved the horse back into
the street. The foreman thought he had been hurt when the horse fell
in, but he wasn't, and he was not in the least bothered by having to
throw him back out again. He went back to his digging."

"Let me see that paper." Kallaher rose and took it from her hand.
Slowly he went over the story--which the reporter who wrote it had
thought exceeding clever. "Yeh," he said finally, "that's me, all
right."

Mrs. Coogan looked upon him with respect. "I never thought much of
you before, Mike Kallaher, but you're the only man I know that could
pick up a horse." She turned to his wife. "It's no wonder you're a
meek woman, Mary, but you ought to be proud of a man like that,
sure."

"Are you coming on with supper now?" asked Kallaher in a mighty
voice of the speechless Mrs. Kallaher. "Be quick now, or I'll give
you what's needing."

Never before had he dared make a threat as if he meant it. His wife
was struck with sudden awe. She gasped and hurried silently with the
setting on of supper. She trembled and dropped a dish.

"You poor clumsy dub!" roared her husband, towering to the height of
five-feet-two. "Are you so weak you can't hold a pot, now?"

"Excuse me, Michael," she murmured. "Excuse me, man. I was excited."

Mrs. Coogan saw with approval that Kallaher was bullying his wife,
and went down the street to tell the neighbourhood.

In Mike Kallaher's kitchen--for it had suddenly become his own,
after belonging for fifteen years to his wife--a poor, meek,
unhappy-looking Irishwoman was obeying orders. She jumped when he
yelled at her, which he did every two minutes to see her jump,
begged his pardon, brought his pipe, and looked on in silence when
he deliberately knocked out the ashes on the newly scrubbed floor. A
man who could throw a horse out of a ditch would stop at nothing.

As the new monarch sat in his chair looking contemptuously away from
his slave, who was tentatively watching him, there was a knock at
the door. Mike's chest had begun to get tired from being swelled out
so far, and he let out his breath with a sigh.

A suave young man was admitted. After ascertaining that Mike
Kallaher really lived in this place he asked Mike how he was
feeling.

"Good," was the truculent answer.

"No injuries from your little adventure this afternoon?"

"Injured, is it? Not a bit--not a bit."

"I'm glad to hear that. I'm assistant manager of the Burke
Construction Company. We heard one of our horses fell on you to-day,
so I came down to help out if you were hurt. We thought we could
afford to pay a few hundred dollars on doctor bills." The young man
smiled pleasantly. "But since you're not hurt and are so willing to
admit it, we won't have that pleasure. Good-bye." He got up and
went.

Kallaher had forgotten to swell out his chest again. He sat drooping
in his chair. His wife was no longer tentative.

"Horse heaver, is it?" She advanced, menacing. "Horse heaver? You
poor mick! There goes your chance to be a cripple for life and die
rich."

She pulled his face up by the front hair and slapped him like a
mother.

"Horse heaver, is it? Take that, now!"

And Kallaher took it.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE EGO OF THE METROPOLIS

By Thomas T. Hoyne


"You couldn't get her picture?" sneered the city editor
contemptuously. "Come, Johnson, get into the game. You're not in
Chicago or St. Louis now. This is New York."

Johnson was eating his bread in the sweat of his brow, but he wanted
to continue eating. Therefore he said nothing, but lounged off into
the local room, empty during the dead afternoon hours.

He was lucky to be working at all. During the couple of weeks he had
been wearing out shoe leather chasing pictures for the greatest of
all metropolitan morning newspapers he had been told his good
fortune a hundred times. He, a perfect stranger in New York, had
walked right into a job.

The job should have been tempting only to the rawest cub, but
Johnson, a crackerjack reporter, snapped at it. He knew that some of
the best newspaper men in New York, crackerjack reporters, were
carrying the banner along Park Row.

The afternoon newspapers were boiling over with editions, black type
and red crying out that one hundred and sixty-eight thousand dollars
had disappeared from a vault of the soundest bank in Wall Street and
that the cashier was missing. To be assigned to this bank story, to
get the chance to show what he really could do, Johnson would have
given a finger from his right hand.

He sat on a corner of a typewriter desk, swinging one leg, while he
raged inwardly at the insolent city editor. Bread or no bread, he
could not work himself into spasms of enthusiasm over a near society
woman's photograph for a cheap story. He was too old in the game for
such child's play.

The noisy opening of the door between the managing editor's room and
the office of the city editor roused him. He heard the managing
editor's voice.

"Got any line on that bank cashier?"

"Not yet, sir," replied the city editor, "but every live man on the
staff is out on the story."

Johnson flushed as if he had been insulted publicly. How would the
old guard in Chicago or Cincinnati retort to such an insinuation
against a man who had campaigned up and down the country and had
learned the newspaper game as a soldier learns war--in action? He
recalled winning out in California, notwithstanding "Native Sons."
But to win against the esoteric self-sufficiency of New Yorkers
demanded higher fortitude.

"Where can I find the owner of this newspaper?"

Johnson came out of his dream abruptly to answer the insignificant
little man who had rambled into the local room.

"He isn't in the building just now," said he patiently.

Owners of newspapers do not receive callers casually. When cranks
get through the outer doors now and again it is the duty of some
employee to act as buffer.

The visitor lifted a trembling hand to his forehead, shook his head
uncertainly, and began to mumble a meandering, inconsequent tale.
Amid the aimless words one sentence unexpectedly shaped itself that
set the reporter's nerves atingle.

Johnson glanced fearfully toward the city editor's office.

"You want to see the owner of the paper?" he asked softly, the
sudden thumping of his heart sounding in his voice. "Come with me."

He grasped the visitor's arm and hurried him out of the local room
into the hall, and thence into an elevator.

"This way," he coaxed, when they reached the street level. He led
the man out into the crowded thoroughfare, cleverly sheering away
from points of danger, as a battleship might convoy a treasure bark.

In the empty local room time dragged. The city editor busied himself
in his little office, glaring at his assignment book, studying
clippings from afternoon newspapers, and answering calls on his
telephone. Once he was interrupted by a woman who laid two tickets
for a church fair on his desk and asked to have a paragraph about
the entertainment published.

"Johnson!" shouted the city editor arrogantly. His voice merely lost
itself in the hollow local room. He rose from his chair irritably
and peered through the door of his office, but there was no Johnson
on whom to break his wrath.

As evening came on reporters and copy readers straggled in. No one
brought startling news in the bank story. The cashier was still
missing and there was no trace of him.

The local room burst into nervous life, emphasized by erratic
volleys from pounding typewriters and hoarse yells for copy-boys.
More than once as the night wore away the city editor stepped from
his office to look toward the corner where Johnson usually sat. Each
time a vacant chair aggravated his anger.

It was nearly eleven o'clock when the ringing telephone bell called
his attention from the proof before him. He jerked the receiver from
its hook.

"Johnson, eh? I wanted you half a dozen times this afternoon and
evening, but now you needn't come in at all. You're through."

He jammed the receiver back with a glow of satisfaction in having
good reason to discharge an incompetent.

The telephone bell rang again. This time the city editor listened.

"You've got the cashier locked up in your room!" he fairly yelled.
"All right! All right!"

Shaking with excitement he wheeled from the telephone.

"Brail! Jack! Fredericks!"

He roared the names into the local room in sharp succession.

Like soldiers at a bugle call men sprang from desks where they were
working or idling.

"You, Jack, get on the 'phone and take a story from Johnson! He's
got the biggest beat that ever was pulled off in the city of New
York."

The rewrite man settled himself at the wire.

At the other end of it Johnson, in his room at the cheap hotel where
he lived, struggled to be calm in this moment of triumph. He began
to dictate.

Near him, well within range of vision, sat his willing prisoner. Not
once since they left the newspaper office together had the cashier
been out of Johnson's sight. Helpless, hopeless, but with a
conscience no longer heavily burdened, the unfortunate man listened
now just as he had listened while the reporter, without betraying
his source of information, craftily verified by telephone the
wandering confession.

Clear and without interruption the stream of dictation poured over
the wire. The story was written as a newspaper story should be
written, and when it was told it ended.

"That's all," sighed Johnson proudly. "I'll hold him here till two
o'clock to make the beat an absolute cinch. Then I'll 'phone the
police."

In the newspaper office the rewrite man had hardly drummed out the
last line of copy before the sheet of paper was snatched from his
typewriter and rushed in the wake of former scudding sheets to the
composing room, just in time for the first edition.

"There never was a beat like it," cried the exultant city editor. "I
don't see how he landed it."

"It's a great piece of newspaper work," agreed the managing editor.
"No man in the country could have done better. Who is Johnson?"

"A new man, but I've taught him the game already. He didn't wait for
any assignment--just went right out and dug that cashier up." The
city editor's voice cracked with enthusiasm. "That's the kind of
newspaper men we turn out in little old New York."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE GAY DECEIVER

By Howard P. Stephenson


The only other passenger thumbed his tobacco into a melancholy
pipe-bowl.

"What's your line?" he asked.

"Soap and Christmas candles," I said, and held out my cigar for his
light.

"Married?"

"Yes, you?"

"Um-m-m-m." And he stretched his legs, drew up his elbows and looked
worried.

"When I was making this territory about this time last year," he
began, "I met a pretty, wifely little girl, and we were married
before I left town. Tarascon wasn't on my regular trip then, but now
I have to strike home once a month.

"You see, I was raised in a family of sisters--all older than I,
all unmarried. I could never bring myself to tell them about Edyth.
They don't know it yet. Live in Cranford, on the Vandalia. My wife
thinks I haven't any folks."

"Well?"

He blushed. "There--it--we--I'm going to be a father." Then he
did blush.

I laughed, sympathetic. "You can't bear not to let your sisters
know?" I ventured.

He nodded and gulped.

"Tarascon," called the brakeman. "Tarascon."

                   *       *       *       *       *

I was on the hot veranda of the Croxton House, at Croxton, some two
weeks later, when I felt a modest hand on my shoulder.

"Boy or girl?" were my first words, with a grin.

"Girl," announced the father with pride. "Sophronia Judith Rose.
Named for my sisters."

He seated himself, fished in his pocket for his pipe, and smiled
nervously.

"They knew it when I got home," he said. "I'd left Edyth's letter in
my room. I believe they had been suspecting all along. Well, they
never said a thing at supper, but when I went upstairs I saw a
string of baby ribbon sticking out of my sample case. The girls had
packed it full of things from their hope boxes. Baby things, they
were.

"I tried to bluff it out, but I--I couldn't do it, and I'd told
them all about it five minutes after I came downstairs.

"We all took the train for Tarascon the next day. Edyth was
tickled--said she'd suspected I had sisters. She hadn't, though, of
course.

"So I had to name the baby for them. Weighed eleven pounds, too.

"My, I've got to catch that 9:32 for Tarascon!"

He pulled out his watch, then turned the dial to me sheepishly.
Under the crystal was a tiny slip of narrow ribbon, baby blue.

"So long," he said. "Mayn't see you again. This is my last trip. The
firm's giving me a city job, where I can be with the family."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

IN COLD BLOOD

By Joseph Hall


With the door of her room locked Viola Perrin opened the letter
which she had taken from her husband's office table. It was not very
securely glued, and she succeeded in loosening the flap without
marring the envelope.

When she had read it she dropped the thing upon her dressing table
and stared with dry, unseeing eyes into the mirror. Her world had
crumbled. She did not burst into tears. She was one of those women
who cannot weep. The thing that had happened to her left her racked,
writhing, tearless.

Suddenly the horror of the thing struck her with full force. St.
John was untrue. He was intriguing with another woman even while he
was being the same courteous, attentive husband to her that he had
always been. She rose and clenched her hands fiercely. She caught
her lower lip cruelly between her teeth. For the first time in her
life she wanted to scream.

In an instant she was hot with anger and hurt pride. She rose
quickly and dressed for the street. She hurried. She must get away.
She had no right in this room, in this house, in the house of a man
who did not love her.

Outside she walked to the street car. She had no plan. She did not
intend to go to his office. She was simply getting away from his
home.

She went into a department store and idly looked at some things
without knowing what they were. It was a sale day, and the crowd in
the store was immense. She came to herself when a sharp cry sounded
at her right and the throng surged in that direction.

A woman had fainted, one of the saleswomen. She was a tall woman,
thin and not bad looking. She had been waiting on Viola the moment
before, and she had simply crumpled behind the counter without a
word. The cry had come from a cash-girl who happened to see her
fall. They lifted the woman and carried her limp and pitiful to the
elevator, a policeman keeping back the crowd.

She left the store and wandered again aimlessly about the streets.
The sidewalks were crowded, mostly with women. It was getting warm,
and the women all looked tired and wilted. Lines of them disappeared
into certain doors, and Viola, looking in, saw that these doors were
entrances to cheap restaurants. It was the lunch hour, and these
women were taking their short recess.

The display in the window of one of these places attracted her
attention. It contained meats in various stages of preparation and
dressing and a wild assortment of vegetables. Some flies had gotten
inside the glass and hovered about the viands. She turned away in
disgust.

She thought of her own lunch. When she was downtown St. John always
took her to lunch with him at one of the hotels. The white napery,
the soft lights, the stealthy-footed waiters, the music, the silver
sprang into her mind in vivid contrast to the cheap display she had
just turned from. She shuddered.

In the palm room of the Brinton with the cool, shadowed comfort
about her and an ice before her, the thought of her tragedy
returned. She had been evading it all day, putting it away from her,
shunning it. But it was always with her, reminding her that her
world, the life she had lived, was shattered.

What then? She must go away. It would be better to go quietly,
without giving any reason, simply leave. Of course St. John would
understand, as would Myrtle Weiss, but their guilt would seal their
tongues.

Disappear? And then what? How would she live? What could she do? She
was incompetent to teach. She knew nothing about office work. Of
course, she could clerk in a store.

Suddenly a vision of what that life would mean to her passed
deadeningly before her. She remembered the thin, tall woman who had
fainted behind the counter without a word. The lines of wilted
workers, hastening in their worn clothes to their cheap lunches,
rose before her. She shivered.

For seven years she had lived in the lap of luxury. Nothing had been
denied her. She had the best of clothes, the best of service, the
choicest of food, the promptest of attention of every kind. Her home
was one of the handsomest houses in the most restricted and stylish
residence district of the city.

Another thought came to her. No one knew that she had found the
letter.

The clock in the palm room showed the time to be one-thirty. St.
John, she knew, was out of town.

She rose quickly and left the room. At the office Miss Johnson, the
stenographer, had just returned from the dairy lunch across the
street. She was powdering her rather unattractive nose. Mrs. Perin
smiled at her as she entered her husband's room. Vaguely she envied
this homely creature.

The table was undisturbed, exactly as she had left it.

She sealed the letter carefully and replaced it on the top of the
little pile of mail upon the blotter.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

HOUSEWORK--AND THE MAN

By Freeman Tilden


"And you live here--all alone?" she said.

"It looks it, doesn't it?" replied Archer, with a little embarrassed
grin. "I have a woman come in once a week to clean up. I do the
rest--when it gets done. I suppose it looks pretty bad--to you."

She ran her finger appraisingly along the table and held it up. It
was covered with dust. She laughed. "Men can't keep house," she
said.

She rummaged around until she found a rag that would serve as a
duster.

"Now, please don't bother, Miss----" he began.

"I'm married," she corrected soberly. "_Mrs._ Kincaid."

"Well, Mrs. Kincaid, please don't bother to do that. Really, I'm
afraid I enjoy dirt."

"Nobody enjoys dirt," was her severe reply. "Not if they can be
clean."

He sat and watched her. He couldn't help laughing. With deft hands
she seemed to fathom every hiding-place of dust. And he noticed that
her cheeks, which had been pale enough when she came in, were
becoming radiant.

Pretty soon she turned her attention to the bed. "Well, of all the
messes I ever saw!" she exclaimed. "Who ever showed you how to make
up a bed?"

"You just watch me," she told him. "Like this--and then like
this--then you smooth it out--see?"

"It sure does look better," he admitted. "But please don't poke
around in the kitchen. At least spare me that mortification."

She didn't heed his plea. "I thought so!" she exclaimed. "Not a dish
washed!"

"I was going to wash them this afternoon," said Archer humbly.

"Huh! don't you know it's twice as hard after you let them stand?
Where's the dishcloth?"

"Oh, come now, really, I won't have you----"

She paid no attention to him. "What pretty dishes!" she said, as the
hot water began to run.

"Five-and-ten cent store," Archer laughed.

"Really? And they look much prettier than mine. Do you know, I think
this is a dear little place."

"Dishwashing is the worst part of it," said the young man.

"Listen," she told him. "Whenever the dishes have egg on them, don't
put the hot water on first. Watch me...."

She even insisted on rearranging his little closet of dishes. She
cleaned the top of the gas range. Archer vainly tried to prevent
her. She was singing now, as she worked. She straightened the
pictures on the wall. She averred that she couldn't be happy till
she had swept the place from end to end.

After it was all over they sat down facing each other. There was a
pink flush of satisfaction on her cheeks.

"And I never knew who lived up here," she began. "I must say you're
quiet. These apartment houses are just like a lot of cigar boxes.
You know our flat is right underneath."

"It's so decent of you," began Arthur.

"Listen," she interrupted. "I've had a perfectly splendid time. I
suppose I must be going now. It's five o'clock, isn't it?"

He nodded.

At the door she stopped and said, "I've often seen you down at the
street door, and wondered whether you'd speak some time. You don't
think--because I came in here----"

"I think nothing," he said.

"I _knew_ you were that kind of a fellow," she whispered, and fled
downstairs.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Kincaid came in at 6:10.

"Supper ready?" he asked.

She threw down the magazine she was reading. "I guess you won't
starve! It's nothing but cook, cook all the time, anyway. I'm
getting tired of it."

Kincaid said nothing. His fingers were resting on the dining-table.
When he took them away there were little patches of varnish showing
through the dust.

She went out into the kitchen and wearily put on a torn apron. The
sink was full of unwashed dishes. He saw them and was unwise enough
to comment on what he saw.

She turned upon him like a flash.

"If you don't like to see them, wash them yourself," she said. "I'm
sick of housework, anyway."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

HER MEMORY

By Dwight M. Wiley


Warrington had really no right to be angry.

He was not engaged to Virginia, merely engaged with her in a
somewhat tempestuous summer flirtation. Down in his heart he knew it
for just that. But he was angry no less, for she had allowed a
"hulking ass" newly arrived at the Inn to "hog her whole program and
make him look a fool before every one."

"Ah ha!" cried the still small voice, "so it's Pride not Heart." And
that made him more angry than ever.

So he went away from the ball-room, out onto the dim veranda, and
strode up and down muttering things better left unmuttered.
Presently he stopped at the far shadowed end, lit a cigarette,
snapped his case viciously, and said "damn."

A demure voice just behind him said "shocking!" and he turned to
confront a small figure in a big chair backed up against the wall.

"I repeat, shocking," said the voice--a very nice voice. And
giggled--a very ripply little gurgly little giggle.

His anger went away.

"Mysterious lady of the shadows," he said (he was very good at that
sort of thing),"does my righteous wrath amuse you?"

He came nearer. He had thought he knew every girl at the Hotel. Here
was a strange one, and pretty. Very. He decided that monopolizing
Virginia had been a mistake.

"It's not a night for wrath, righteous or otherwise. See!" and she
stretched out her arms to the great moon hanging low over the golf
links beyond.

He hunted for a chair. This was bully. And when he had drawn one up,
quite close:

"Whence do you come, all silvery with the moon, to chide me for my
sins, moon maid?"

Without doubt he was outdoing himself.

She laughed softly and leaned toward him, elfin in the pale shimmer
of light. "I am Romance," she breathed, "and this is my night. The
night, the moon, and I conspire to make magic."

He secured a slim hand. The pace was telling. His voice was a little
husky.

"Your charms are very potent, moon maid," he said, "it is magic,
isn't it? It--it doesn't happen like this--really."

Their eyes met--clung.

"You--you take my breath," he stammered. "Does your heart mean what
your eyes are saying? Don't--don't look at me like that unless you
do--mean it."

She didn't answer in words. She, too, was breathing quickly.

He released her hand, and sprang up--half turned away. Then he
dropped to the arm of her chair. Swiftly he took her face in his two
hands. The throbbing of her throat intoxicated him. "I--I--love
me," he stammered.

Her lips moved. A sob more poignant than words. They kissed for a
long time.

There were footsteps down the veranda. She drew away. She recognized
her mother's voice and Miss Neilson's. She was thinking very
quickly. Should she send him away or end it now--end it all now?

"You darling--you darling. I--I love you," he was saying.

She leaned to him. "Kiss me. Kiss me--quickly."

The voices were quite close now.

"Mother," she called, "here I am." She laughed. "But I guess you
know I wouldn't run away. Mother, this is Mr.--ah--Brown, and we
have been discussing--doctors. Mr. Brown has an uncle in exactly my
condition. Hopelessly paralyzed."

She said it calmly. The world reeled. His brain was numb. She was
being wheeled away by the nurse. A wheeled chair--God!

"Good-night," she called.

A cripple. He had kissed her. Horrible! He made for the bar.

In her room while the nurse was making her ready for bed, the mother
said, "How strange you look, dear. And how--how beautiful."

She flung her arms wide in an intoxication of triumph. "Mother," she
half sobbed, "all my life to now I've been just--just a thing. A
cripple. Now--now--I am a woman."

"Oh, God!" she cried, her eyes starry. "Life is good--good. For
now--now I have--a Memory."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

HIS JOURNEY'S END.

By Ruth Sterry


Fog enfolded the city in a drenching white veil.

It clung to the windows of the Palace Hotel and shut out the light
from the bedroom in which a man sat earnestly penning a letter. It
seemed to make an effort at entrance as though it would blot from
the paper the words he wrote.

                                                "Palace Hotel,
                                            Wednesday morning.

"Dear Miss Arliss,

"It seems strange to call you that when I am about to ask you to be
my wife. Yet what can I do when I have seen you only once?

"You surely remember, do you not, that one day when you and I met
and were held prisoners by the train wreck in the San Joaquin
Valley, you said I might call on you when I returned to San
Francisco after my trip to the Orient? But you could not have
dreamed what your permission meant to the lonely, business-bound
coffee merchant who long ago, in the poisonous lands of South
America, had shut his heart to women's smiles, and had turned deaf
ears to the music of their voices.

"Nor can I ever hope to make you understand what it meant during the
long journeying that followed the wreck. The memory of you with your
cheeriness, your undaunted smile in all the hardship of that wreck,
has brought new life to me.

"For eight months I have dreamed of you day and night. During that
time I have not once lost the picture of heated desert waste, the
ugly wreckage of the train, the groaning, weeping people--and you,
a girl with tender eyes, a smile of sympathy for the unluckiest
devil, and ready resourcefulness to ease pain that would have done
credit to an army nurse. I have dreamed of you in my home--awaiting
my coming with your radiant smile.

"And so, unable to come to you in simple friendship, I thought it
best to write first and explain. I wanted to come with your
permission granted after you knew that I love you--I love you. I
like to write the words, I want you for my wife.

"I stopped on my way from the station to buy all the flowers I could
find to send with this note. I chose spring blossoms because they
are so much like you.

"I am waiting with mad impatience for your answer. Do not regard my
love lightly. It springs from the unspent passions, the unfulfilled
ideals of a lifetime. Oh, my dear, speed your answer back to me. Say
I may come to you--now.

                                    "Yours to eternity,
                                                    "John Marble."

It was three o'clock in the afternoon before the fog lifted. It
vanished before the piercing rays of the bright spring sun. At the
windows of the Palace Hotel little rays of sunlight struck aslant
the glass as though merrily demanding admission. They poured through
the windows of John Marble's room and illumined his face as he, with
trembling fingers, opened a note a messenger had brought. A single
sunbeam fell on the paper, blurring the lines so that he shifted it
to read:

                                                "600 Pacific Avenue,
                                                Wednesday afternoon.

"Mr. John Marble,

"Dear Sir:

"We put your flowers on her coffin to-day. She was like the spring
blossoms which she loved. They hold your letter to her buried in the
depths of their bloom. She had made my life a heaven for five bright
months. I am trying to bear God's will.

                                            "Her husband,
                                                    "Morrison Grey."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

FOOD FOR THOUGHT

By Harriet Lummis Smith


Forbes had bribed his way past the gateman and stood on the station
platform at the foot of the stairs, his manner drearily resigned. He
had come to meet a girl and he did not fancy the job.

"Hang it, man," he had protested, when Keith Chandler, his partner,
summoned to New York by a telegram, had deputed Forbes to meet the
four o'clock train, and incidentally, his sister-in-law. "I
shouldn't know the girl."

"I've never seen her myself," his friend reminded him. "She was in
Japan when Agnes and I were married, studying decorative art. Cabled
she'd come home for the wedding if we'd postpone it three months."
Chandler indulged himself in a smile of reminiscent scorn.

"If Mrs. Chandler would accompany me," said Forbes, brightening. He
really liked his partner's wife, partly because her devotion to her
husband made unnecessary those defenses he was accustomed to erect
about himself in the society of women under sixty. Chandler's answer
shattered his hopes.

"If Agnes could leave the baby it wouldn't be necessary to trouble
you. But the little thing's under the weather. Nothing serious, but
you couldn't bribe Agnes out of the house till the child's herself
again. And you won't have any trouble picking Diantha out of the
crowd. She looks like Agnes," Chandler ended complacently. "There
won't be two of that kind on any one train, my boy."

Forbes, immaculate in his gray business suit, frowningly scanned the
crowd hurrying past, the rabble of men with suit-cases on ahead, the
women following more deliberately. Heavens, what a swarm of women!
Forbes saw himself addressing the wrong girl and snubbed for his
pains.

Then all in a moment a figure took on distinction, a girl splendidly
tall, who carried herself as if proud of every inch, who walked the
station platform in a fashion suggesting that she could dance all
night, and go horseback riding in the morning. Yes, she was like
Mrs. Chandler, only larger, handsomer, more stunning in a word. Hat
in hand he approached her.

"Miss Byrd, I believe."

The girl halted, facing him squarely. He had no time for
explanations. A well-shaped, perfectly gloved hand rested lightly on
either shoulder. He had a bewildering impression of a tall figure
swaying toward him, of a fragrance too elusive to be called perfume,
of gray eyes flecked with violet. Then her lips touched his.

"Miss Byrd, indeed!" She was laughing in his face. "You are my first
and only brother, young man, and I warn you I shall make you live up
to the part." One hand slipped from his shoulder and through his
arm. He found himself walking beside her, following the porter who
carried her satchels, and listening mechanically to a flow of words
which fortunately required no reply.

The affair was a hideous nightmare. Mistaking him for Chandler, whom
she had never seen, this unsuspecting girl had kissed him before a
hundred witnesses. Most appalling of all, an explanation seemed an
unthinkable brutality. When once she knew, she could never look him
in the face again. It was essential to keep her in ignorance of her
blunder till he left her at Chandler's door.

Not till they were seated in a taxicab did she ask a direct
question. This was fortunate, as Forbes had been incapable of an
intelligent reply.

"How's the baby, Keith?"

"The baby--oh, yes, the little thing has been slightly under the
weather." As he repeated the information imparted by Chandler
earlier in the day, Forbes blushed to his ears.

"Little darling!" murmured the girl. "How many teeth has she?"

"Teeth! Oh--I--the usual number, I believe."

"I'm awfully ignorant, Keith. I ought to be ashamed to confess it,
but I really don't know what is the usual number for a child of six
months."

Vainly she waited for enlightenment. Forbes' answer was a tortured
smile. His agonized prayer that she might change the subject was
granted all too soon.

"How's Reggie?"

"I beg pardon." Forbes' jaw dropped. His Christian name was
Reginald.

"Mr. Forbes. I prefer to call him Reggie. Do you admire him as
extravagantly as Agnes does? Then I see I shall be forced to conceal
my prejudice to keep peace in the family."

"Prejudice? You are prejudiced against him?"

"Of course. Such a bundle of perfection."

"Oh, no." Forbes spoke with generous earnestness. "He's not that at
all. Just an ordinary good sort."

"Then you think I shall like him?"

The innocent question stabbed him. "No," Forbes said after a long
pause. "You won't like him." In his heart he felt he was
understating the case. She would regard him with abhorrence. Every
moment this deception continued, even though practised to spare her
feelings, added to her righteous grievance. The pain in his voice as
he spoke was a surprise to himself.

"He must be a singular person," mused the girl. "Agnes vows he is
perfection. You reassure me by acknowledging him human, and yet you
are certain I won't like him. Or is that because I am so
unreasonable?"

"Really, Miss Byrd----"

He thought she was going to kiss him again, she leaned toward him so
swiftly. His heart stood still though his mood could be hardly
characterized as shrinking. But she confined herself to beating a
tattoo against his arm with a little clenched fist.

"I won't be Miss Byrd to my only brother, I _won't_! Say Diantha."

"Di-an-tha."

"You say it as if it were Keren-Happuch. Try it again."

He stammered out the three melodious syllables. He was thinking less
of her name than of her eyes. There were golden mischievous lights
swimming like motes in the blue, and her drooping lashes made black
shadows. She turned her head and the curve of her neck was
distracting.

"Why, he's stopping," Diantha cried. "Are we there?"

Incredible as it seemed, they were at Chandler's door. "Wait,"
Forbes said to the driver, his voice hoarse. He took Diantha's arm
to assist her up the steps and she looked at him wonderingly.

"Aren't you coming in?"

"Not just now." Forbes forced a smile. It was possible that they
would never meet again, and if they did, her friendliness would have
been transformed into implacable enmity. He extended his hand.
"Good-bye," he whispered.

"_Au revoir._" His agreeable doubt whether her ideals of
sisterliness would lead her to something more affectionate than a
handclasp was merged in disappointment. The door swung open and she
disappeared. Forbes went back to the cab in a dejection only
partially dissipated by Mrs. Chandler's note next day.

"Dear Mr. Forbes:

"Can't you dine with us Friday? We have all enjoyed a good laugh
over Diantha's absurd mistake.

                                        "Cordially yours,
                                            "Agnes Byrd Chandler."

Forbes' uncertainty as to how far Mrs. Chandler was in her sister's
confidence was unenlightened three weeks later when he asked Diantha
to marry him. He had waited three weeks, not from choice, but
because he had been unable to induce that elusive young woman to
listen to him earlier.

She looked past him, her changeful eyes sombre and sad like the sea
under clouds. "I can't say yes," she murmured plaintively, "without
owning up. And if I own up, you'll want me to say no."

"Diantha!" he faltered. Used as he was to feminine extravagance in
speech, her words chilled him.

She turned her tragic gaze on him. "I knew it was you all the time."

"I don't understand."

"That day at the train. Agnes had sent me a kodak picture of Keith
and yourself taken on a fishing trip and I recognized you instantly.
I had a little prejudice against you to start with, Agnes praised
you so preposterously, and then when I saw you looking so bored and
superior--oh, I know it was immodest and unwomanly and perfectly
horrid, but I just had an intuition of the way you'd gone through
life holding women at arm's length, and I made up my mind to give
you something to think about."

The confession ended in a half sob. A tear clung for an instant to
her curving lashes then fell to her cheek. Forbes leaned closer,
murmuring something neither an assurance of forgiveness nor
altogether entreaty, but a mixture of both. If it was further food
for thought for which he pleaded, he did not ask in vain.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

HOPE

By Edward Thomas Noonan


"Here's a pathetic case of chronic melancholia," the doctor
continued, as we walked among the inmates. "That white-haired woman
has been here twenty-six years. She is entirely tractable with one
obsession. Every Sunday she writes this letter:

                                                        "'Sunday.

"'Dear John:

"'I am sorry we quarreled when you were going away out West. It was
all my fault. I hope you will forgive and write.

                                                "'Your loving,
                                                        "'Esther.'

"Every Monday she asks for a letter, and, though receiving none,
becomes radiant with hope and says: 'It will come to-morrow.' The
last of the week she is depressed. Sunday she again writes her
letter. That has been her life for twenty-six years. Her youthful
face is due to her mental inactivity. Aimlessly she does whatever is
suggested. The years roll on and her emotions alternate between
silent grief and fervid hope.

"This is the male ward. That tall man has been here twenty years.
His history sheet says from alcoholism. He went to Alaska, struck
gold, and returned home to marry the girl he left behind. He found
her insane and began drinking, lost his fortune and then his reason,
and became a ward of the State, always talking about his girl and
events that happened long ago.

"He is the 'John' to whom 'Esther' writes her letter.

"They meet every day.

"They will never know each other."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

COLLUSION

By Lincoln Steffens


The sacred door of the Judge's chambers bolted open and he beheld
the light, lovely figure of a woman trembling before him; brave,
afraid.

"Oh, Judge," she panted, but she turned and closing the door
securely, put her back against it to hold it shut. And so at bay,
she called to him:

"Judge, Judge, can't I tell you the truth? Can't I? My lawyer says I
mustn't. He says perjury is the only way. And I--I have done
perjury, Judge. So has my husband. And I'll swear to it all in court
when we are under oath. But here where we are all alone, you and I,
unsworn, with no one to hear, can't I tell you the truth?

"I must. I can't stand the lies. Yes, yes, I know they are merely
forms, legal forms. My lawyer has explained that, and that we must
respect the law and comply with its requirements. And we'll do that,
Judge; we have, and I'll go through with it, if--I mean that it
would help me if I could know that you were not deceived by the
lies; if I could know that you knew the truth.

"And the truth is so much truer and more beautiful than the lies.
Ours is. I loved him, Judge. I love him now. And he loved me. And it
wasn't his fault that he fell in love with her. And she didn't mean
to--to hurt me so. She was my friend. I brought them together. I
was happy when I brought them together, her, my old chum, and him,
my lover; and when I saw that they took to each other, I was glad. I
never thought of their loving. I didn't think of that till, by and
by, I found that they were avoiding each other. I couldn't get them
to meet any more. That made me think--it was terrible what I
thought.

"I thought--Judge, I knew that they had agreed not to meet any more
because they had discovered that they loved each other. He admitted
it, when I asked him, finally. So did she, later, when upon my
demand, we all three met to speak what was in our hearts.

"That was when I refused to have it so. I wouldn't keep a man who
loved another woman. I couldn't, could I? And so I said I would go
away and get the divorce and let them be together and, by and
by--marry.

"It was all to be clean and honourable and fine, Judge. We didn't
know then the requirements of the law. We didn't know we shouldn't
have an honest understanding like that. And I--I didn't know that I
had to make charges against him that are not true, and that he had
to write me letters to prove he had refused to support me; false
letters; and coarse. He? Coarse? Judge, he----

"But I'm not complaining. We copied, my husband and I, the letters
the lawyer wrote out for us to sign and date back and show to you.
We have done our part. I have lived here, in this terrible place,
among these other--people. I have been here the required length of
time for the 'residence.' I have withstood the looks we get from
men--and women. We have obeyed the law, yes, and I will come to
your court and swear--I will swear falsely, Judge, to all you ask.
I must, mustn't I? I can't go on this way loving a man who doesn't
love me. And I can't keep two lovers apart, can I? When love is so
beautiful, so right, so good. Don't I know? And it must be pure.

"So I will do my duty, just as my lawyer does his, and as you do
yours. Oh, I know; I know how conscientious you all are, and
especially you, Judge. My lawyer has told me, again and again, that
you know it's all perjury. Every time I wanted to come to you and
tell you the truth, he has said that you understood. He forbade me
to come; he doesn't know I am here now. But I had to come. I think I
might not be able to go through with it if I had not told you the
truth myself: How we three have agreed perfectly, he and I and she;
how we are to pay each a third of the costs. They were so generous
about it, begging to pay all. And I want you to be sure we are all
perfectly reconciled to the change; all of us; I, too; perfectly.

"And, Judge, he, my husband, he couldn't, he simply could not have
written letters like that. Oh, I'll swear to them; I'll swear to
anything, I'll do anything, almost, if--if only you, Judge----"

The Judge rose.

"If," he finished for her, "if only I will understand. Well, I
will."

And he went to the door, opened it wide and, as she passed, he bowed
to the woman with the respect which, till that day, he had paid only
to the Law.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

FAITHFUL TO THE END

By Clair W. Perry


Embarkation of the 10th London Reservists for France was the
occasion of a demonstration in the city such as had not been seen
since the Canadian contingent crossed the Channel. The call for
these fresh troops had a sinister significance. It meant the
long-awaited "general advance" from Calais to Belfort was impending.
At the quay, where the dingy transports were swallowing up file
after file of England's youth, were hundreds of women and girls come
to bid a bitter-sweet farewell to their lads, whose vigorous bodies
were to be crammed into the hungry maw of war.

Lieutenant Topham, Wing Commander of the aerial division with the
10th, stood apart at the far end of the quay. He had just finished
superintending the loading of his machines. He was watching the
troops file aboard, hungrily absorbed in the dramatic scenes that
passed, one after the other like cinema scenes, when wife, mother,
sweetheart, sister, kissed loved ones good-bye. He moved nearer the
sloping gangway where were enacted these hasty tender farewells,
swift embraces at the foot of the passage, so swift the progress of
the tramping files was scarcely halted, each woman, for an instant,
giving up her soul in an embrace--and the next instant giving up
her son, brother, or mate to his Maker--or his destroyer.

Topham was deeply moved by the scenes. But it was a selfish emotion.
There was no one to bid him farewell. For the first time in his
careless life he felt the lack. He had no mother, no sister, no
sweetheart. His men friends, even, were not there; they had gone on
before.

As he moved nearer the ship on which he was to take passage for
France, and the wild dash in air for which he had been detailed, to
shell the recently established German Zeppelin base near "Hill 60,"
there came over him a premonition of death and a yearning emotion.
He wanted some human being to bid him farewell, some one who placed
his life above all else, a woman who cared.

In his abstracted progress he almost ran into the figure of a girl.
She was standing close to the moving file, and in her searching
eyes, as Topham looked in silent apology, he saw a fire that
thrilled him. He noted, too, beauty, and a band of mourning on her
sleeve. Her gaze pierced Topham with compelling appeal. The bugle
was giving its piercing call, "All hands on." With a sudden impulse
Topham stepped close to the girl.

"Are you sending--some one away?" he queried.

She shook her head and touched the band on her arm.

"My father--a month ago--at Ypres," she replied.

"I am going--over there," eagerly explained Topham, "and I have no
one. I feel that I--shall never return. I wonder if you---- Will
you kiss me good-bye? I promise you I shall never kiss another
woman--that I will be faithful--until the end," he finished with
wistful whimsicality.

Her smile was like a soft flame. Without a word she stepped close to
him and, as he doffed his cap and bent, she clasped him about the
neck, drew his close-cropped head down, and kissed him on the lips.

There was no time for words. Topham had to spring for the moving
gang-plank. The bugle had sounded its last call for stragglers such
as he. The girl who had given him his sweet farewell was swallowed
up in the crowd.

Halfway across the Channel Topham found he could not even recall the
girl's features, the colour of her eyes or hair. All that remained
to him was a dim expression of sweet, yearning womanliness, an
abstract conception.

At the transfer hospital, a week later, Topham's shattered, helpless
form was laid for a few moments on a cot. His fall from a great
height after a desperate duel with a German Taube left him victor
and hero but with the shadow of death hovering over him. Numbness
mercifully stilled the pain that had gripped him and he lay passive.
It was not until he felt the touch of a hand softer than that of the
hurrying surgeon who had given hasty "first aid" examination that he
opened his eyes. A woman nurse, the only one he had seen so near the
lines, was bending over him. He could see only dimly. A mist was
over his eyes from the explosion of his engine. Her touch, however,
seemed to give him a thrill of vitality. When she moved on he sank
into semi-coma, with the feeling of chill. Death bearing down on
him. She moved again to his side and he moaned. The grim grip was
tightening. Like a boy he was afraid. In the world there was only
himself, this woman, and approaching death.

"I am going," he muttered swiftly, as the nurse bent near. "Will you
kiss me good-bye? I can promise you--I will be faithful--until the
end." His smile was a pitiful effort at humour. He felt her warm
lips on his--and then oblivion.

Topham came to himself--save for the memory of a delirium of travel
in motor-ambulance and boat--in a clean white bed in a large, lofty
room. When his senses cleared he knew he was in England. White-clad
nurses moved about the room in which were many other beds containing
huddled or stretched-out figures. At his first movement one of the
nurses came to his bedside. Her keen glance, under her significant
cap, spoke efficiency and warm human sympathy. A few deft touches, a
spoon of medicine, a pat of the pillow, and she was gone.

Topham awoke again in the dark small hours when man's vitality is at
its lowest ebb; awoke with that familiar depression, as of a chill
hand gripping his heart--squeezing his very soul. It was Death,
again, groping for him. Only his brain seemed clear. He tinkled,
with a supreme effort, the bell at his bedside. A nurse came, her
face indistinct in the dim light, and bent over him in an attitude
of solicitation.

"What is it?" she asked, and her voice seemed that of an angel from
Heaven.

"I--I am almost gone," gasped Topham. "My heart is stopping. I--I
am not afraid--but--it is so lonely. I have no one. Could
you--kiss me--good-bye?"

He was halted by a swift movement. She had raised his head and he
swallowed a draft of something that sent a liquid thrill through
him. In a trice his feeling changed from that of a sinking,
suffocating soul to that of a man whose life is rushing back into
him. The nurse was smiling into his eyes.

"You were going to say," she murmured musically, "that you will be
faithful to the end."

Topham opened his eyes wider. That face--the ripe lips--the clear,
burning eyes! They were those of the girl at the quay--of the nurse
at the transfer hospital--no, of the nurse who had bent over him
when he first regained consciousness here--yes, of all three. A
deep flush overspread his pallid face.

"You said you would be faithful to the end," she repeated roguishly.
He groped for an answer.

"In my mind," he confessed, "I did not know you. But in my heart I
must have known you all the time."

Then she kissed him again.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

ARLETTA

By Margaret Ade


It was on a Monday morning in August that Miss Backbay climbed the
brownstone steps to the rooming-house conducted by Mrs. Edward
Southend in Massachusetts Avenue, Boston. Miss Backbay was short,
stout, and sixty, and her face was flushed and scowling.

"I wish to speak with Mrs. Southend," she snapped at the woman who
opened the door. The woman, a middle-aged, quiet-looking little
woman, glanced at the card and said: "I am Mrs. Southend, Miss
Backbay; come this way please."

In the parlour Miss Backbay and Mrs. Southend looked into each
other's eyes for a few moments and exchanged a silent challenge;
then Miss Backbay leaned forward in her chair and said: "I have
come, Mrs. Southend, to talk with you concerning this--this affair
between your son and my niece. Miss Arletta Backbay. I have, as you
know, brought her up, and I love her as if she were my own daughter.
She is the last of the Backbays--the Backbays of Backbay. Our
family lived on Beacon Hill when Boston Common was a farming
district. The Backbays are direct--_direct_ descendants of William
I, King of England--William the Conqueror."

Miss Backbay drew a long, deep breath.

Mrs. Southend was silent.

"I have devoted years of my life," Miss Backbay continued, "to the
education of my niece. Nothing has been spared to prepare her for
the high social position to which, by her ancestry alone, she is
entitled. I am going into this bit of family history so you will
understand--so you will see this affair from my viewpoint. I have
been exceedingly careful in the selection of her teachers, her
associates, and her servants. Your son came to us well recommended
by his pastor and by his former employer. I have no fault to find
with him as--as a chauffeur, but as a suitor for the hand of my
niece he--he is impossible. Absolutely! The thing is absurd. I--I
have done what I could to break up this affair. I have discharged
him. But my niece has defied me. She assures me that she loves him
and--and will marry him in spite of everything. She is headstrong,
self-willed, and--and completely bewitched. She has lost all
pride--pride in her ancient lineage. Now I have come to you to
beseech you to use your influence with your son. Induce him to leave
the city--he must leave the city, if only for a year. I--I shall
pay----"

"Pardon me, just a moment, Miss Backbay." Mrs. Southend left the
room, and in a few minutes she returned carrying a large volume, her
fingers between the pages.

"As I listened to you, Miss Backbay, the thought came to me very
forcibly that it is a pity--a great pity--that you could not have
selected your ancestors as you do your servants--from the better
class of respectable working people. But, of course, you could not.
You could, however, try to live them down--forget them--some of
them, anyway. Listen to this biographical sketch of your most famous
ancestor. It is from page 659 of the 'Encyclop√¶dia Britannica':
'William I, King of England--William the Conqueror, born 1027 or
1028. He was the bastard son of Robert the Devil, Duke of Normandy,
by Arletta, the daughter of a tanner.'"

Mrs. Southend closed the book with a bang.

"Not much to boast about, is it? We all have ancestors, Miss
Backbay, but the less said about some of them the better. And now,
if my son wants to go out of _his_ class and mix it up with Robert
the Devil and Arletta--why, that's his--his funeral. You'll excuse
me now, Miss Backbay. I have my husband's dinner to prepare."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

WHICH?

By Joseph Hall


They were two women, one young, radiant, the other gently,
beautifully old.

"But, Auntie, it's such fun."

The older rose.

"Wait."

In a moment she had returned. Two faded yellow letters lay upon the
young girl's lap.

"Read them."

Wonderingly the girl obeyed. The first read:

  "Dearest:

  "I leave you to John. It is plain you care for him. I love you. Just
  now it seems that life without you is impossible. But I can no
  longer doubt. If you cared, there would be no doubt. John is my
  friend. I would rather see you his than any others, since you cannot
  be mine. God bless you.

                                                            "Will."

The other:

  "Beloved:

  "I am leaving you to the better man. For me there can never be
  another love. But it is best--it is the right thing--and I am,
  yes, I am glad that it is Will you love instead of me. You cannot be
  anything but happy with him. With me--but that is a dream I must
  learn to forget.

                                            "As ever and ever,
                                                            "John."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

WHAT THE VANDALS LEAVE

By Herbert Riley Howe


The war was over, and he was back in his native city that had been
retaken from the Vandals. He was walking rapidly through a dimly lit
quarter. A woman touched his arm and accosted him in fuddled
accents.

"Where are you going, M'sieu? With me, hein?"

He laughed.

"No, not with you, old girl. I'm going to find my sweetheart."

He looked down at her. They were near a street lamp. She screamed.
He seized her by the shoulders and dragged her closer to the light.
His fingers dug her flesh, and his eyes gleamed.

"Joan!" he gasped.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

BEN T. ALLEN, ATTY., VS. HIMSELF

By William H. Hamby


"Lawyers always get theirs." The hardware dealer on the north side
spoke with some bitterness and entire literalness. The check for one
hundred and seventy-five dollars just wrenched from its stub bore
"Ben T. Allen, Atty.," in the middle, and "Peter Shaw Hardware Co.,"
at the bottom.

Peter, by the aid and advice of counsel, had been resisting the
payment of a merchant's tax of five dollars a year which the alleged
city of Clayton Center had insisted on collecting. The case had now
been in the supreme court two years. This check was merely "on
account."

The check had occasioned the remark, but the bitterness back of it
was engendered by another case, in which Peter had been prosecuting
his claims for the affection of Betty Lane, court stenographer.
Attorney Allen appeared against him this time instead of for him,
and in both cases Peter seemed to be getting the worst of it.

But that, of course, is all in the viewpoint. At that moment
Attorney Allen stood by the front window of his offices, his thick
hair tangled like the fleece of a black sheep after a restless
night, his soul splashing in a vat of gloom. Betty Lane had just
passed through the courthouse yard on her way to work. Nature had
made Betty very attractive, but her job had made her independent.

The lawyer was bitterly despondent. Law practice in Clayton Center
was no longer lucrative. Although Allen was very dextrous in
twisting three-ply bandages around the eyes of the Lady with the
Scales, the Lady with the Pencil at the right of the Judge was not
so blind. The citizens of Clayton Center had developed a spineless,
milksop tendency to settle even their constitutional rights out of
court. Besides Betty's seven dollars a day Allen's income looked as
ill-fed as a dromedary in an elephant parade.

The young lawyer's heart was so heavy over his light matrimonial
prospects that he went out that night with some of the boys and got
drunk. In returning at one A. M., singing "It Was at Aunt
Dinah's Quilting Party--I was seeing Nellie home," he fell off the
board sidewalk and broke the established precedent that a drunken
man cannot hurt himself by a fall.

The breaking of one leg was the most fortunate accident upon which a
distressed barrister ever fell. It gave him two legs on which to
stand in court.

He sued the city immediately for ten thousand dollars' damages on
account of the defective sidewalk. His three companions swore
positively that there was not only one hole in the walk, but two,
and not only two loose boards, but six.

Moreover, it was not a plain fracture of the limb. Allen proved by a
liver specialist that the jolt had permanently deranged his liver; a
spine specialist testified the jar had injured the fourteenth
vertebra; a nerve specialist swore that the shock of the fall and
subsequent anguish of mind in seeing his law practice drop away
would probably result in a total breakdown.

The jury gave him four thousand dollars' damages--twice what he
hoped. And the city attorney, having a fraternal feeling for
fractured legal legs, advised the city to pay instead of appeal.

One bright morning, fully recovered and adorned in a natty spring
suit, Ben T. Allen went to the courthouse to get an order from the
court to the city treasurer for his four thousand dollars' damages.

There was a click of a typewriter in an anteroom. Betty Lane, the
court stenographer, was down early working out some notes.

Ben T. Allen went in, laid his hat debonairly on a stack of
notebooks, sat on the edge of her desk, and locked his hands around
his knees and smiled possessively.

"Why, good morning, Mr. Allen." Betty looked up and nodded. "Allow
me to congratulate you."

"For what?"

"Why, haven't you seen the supreme court's decision in this
morning's paper? You won your case. Peter Shaw does not have to pay
his annual five-dollar merchant tax."

"Good!" exclaimed Allen. "No, I had not seen it."

"Yes," nodded Betty, with something not quite transparent in her
smile, "the judge who handed down the decision sustained your
contention, that as the notices of election, at which the town was
incorporated thirty-eight years ago, were posted only nineteen days
instead of twenty, as the law requires, the articles of
incorporation were illegally adopted. Therefore, the town is
non-existent. Its officers have no right to levy or collect taxes,
to sue or to be sued, to receive or _pay out moneys_."

"Good heavens!" Allen felt himself slowly collapsing on the table,
sick in every organ described by the specialists.

"Sometimes," smiled Betty, as she glanced out of the window toward
the hardware store--"_sometimes_ a lawyer gets his."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE JOKE ON PRESTON

By Lewis Allen


"Has the prisoner secured counsel?"

"No, your honour," responded District Attorney Masters.

Judge Horton looked over the tops of his steel-rimmed spectacles,
first at the unkempt prisoner, and then around the courtroom.

"The court will provide counsel for your defense. Have you any
choice?" he asked the prisoner.

The prisoner had not. He didn't know one man from another in the
courtroom. A faint suspicion of a smile showed on District Attorney
Master's face. He winked slyly at several of his brother attorneys,
and even smiled rather knowingly at the judge when he made the
suggestion that the court appoint Mr. Preston attorney for the
defense. A titter went around the courtroom at this, and young John
Preston flushed to the roots of his yellow hair as he arose and went
forward to consult with his client.

"Honest to God, are you a lawyer?" asked the prisoner, in a voice
that carried. It took nearly two minutes to restore decorum.

In spite of his embarrassment young Preston thanked the court and
asked for a day's postponement in order to acquaint himself with his
client's case. This was granted, and after adjournment the District
Attorney took young Preston aside, put his hand patronizingly on his
shoulder, and said:

"Great Scott, Johnnie, give the poor devil a square deal! The only
thing in the world for him is a plea of guilty and a request for
leniency."

"Thank you, sir," said Preston rather stiffly, "but I at least want
to know something of my client's case."

"Now, now, Johnnie, you must learn to take things in the proper
spirit. Every young lawyer must have his first case, and he must
expect a certain amount of good-natured raillery over it, and,
believe me, it isn't every man fresh from law school who gets a
murder case for the very first thing. Be sensible about it, boy. I'm
advising you for your father's sake. We were partners, you know."

"Yes, I know," answered Preston.

"Oh, don't be stubborn, Johnnie! Why, dash it all, the prisoner has
confessed!"

"A great many innocent men have confessed under the third degree,"
and young Preston bowed rather too formally and turned on his heel.

"He'll get the chair if you fight the case," snapped the District
Attorney.

"He'll get the chair--or liberty, sir," was all young Preston
replied, and he hurried over to the jail, where he was secluded in
the cell with his client, the prisoner.

It wasn't much of a story the prisoner told. He said his name was
Farral, that he was a plain hobo, and that with another hobo he had
got into a fight with a freight brakeman who wouldn't let them jump
the train. Both picked up lumps of coal to defend themselves, and in
the mix-up the poor brakeman's skull was crushed. He managed to
shoot and kill the other hobo, but he died before they got him to
the hospital.

Young Preston said nothing, for five minutes. Farral became nervous.
Finally he said:

"Say, kid, I ain't blamin' you any. You gotter have your first case
some time, and so they wished you on me. The only thing to do is to
plead guilty to self-defense----"

"Never do," said young Preston. "There isn't a juryman in the county
who would agree to justifiable homicide."

"But I confessed, kid; I confessed. Whatcher goin' to do about it
now?"

"Just what did you say? Give me the exact words."

"I says to the captain, 'Don't put me through no third degree. I
killed him!'"

"What made you say that?"

"They'd put it on me anyway. I thought it would help me."

"What was the name of the man with you?"

"I don't know. I never saw him before."

"His name was Ichabod Jones," said Preston impressively, "and don't
you ever forget it. Remember, you have known this man for a long
while and that he went under the name of 'Black Ike.'"

Preston talked a half-hour longer with the man and drilled him over
and over before he left him.

When the case came up the prosecution introduced witnesses
sufficient to prove that the brakeman had been killed and then
introduced the confession.

"We rest the case there, your honour," said District Attorney
Masters, with somewhat of a flourish.

Young Preston put his client on the stand without delay and had him
tell his story of the fight, which was to the effect that it was not
he, but the other man, who killed the brakeman.

"What was the other man's name?" asked Preston.

"Ichabod Jones," replied the prisoner; "at least, that's what he
told me."

"How did you always address him?"

"I always called him Ike."

"You may tell the court just what you said in this _alleged_
confession."

"I didn't make no confession. I said to the captain, 'Don't put me
through no third degree. _Ike_ killed him.'"

And, for all that the prosecuting attorney could prove to the
contrary, Ike did.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE IDYL

By Joseph F. Whelan


    Let us have a day of idyl, you and I,
    Upon some mountain-top, with no one by
    Save birds and flowers and waving trees that sigh,
    And crooning winds whose lyrics never die.

The Poet handed it to the Girl, with rather a quizzical smile. They
did not know each other. He had seen her walking along one of the
park paths, and the loneliness of her face stopped him. She read the
verse, then gazed at him a few seconds, half amused, half annoyed,
then wholly joyous. He read compliance in her eyes.

"Rather rude, isn't it?" he asked. "But the desperation of
loneliness is heavy on my soul."

They sauntered to the gates and boarded a street car, which whirled
them, with twenty other people equally though unconsciously lonely,
toward the mountain. She did not speak until they were zig-zagging
along a bridle path up the mountainside. Then she unfolded the verse
and said musingly:

"A day of idyl! A year ago I thought that every day would be an
idyl." And the sweet mouth soured in the churn of memory.

"My dear lady," he said, "memories have no place in a day of idyl.
Oh, let me teach you how to live, live, live, if only for an hour!
Let's sing the song of nature which is happiness--dance the dance
of winds which is joy--think the thought of butterflies which is
nothing! Oh, there is happiness everywhere, everywhere--even for
you and me!"

They reached a little hillock where a clump of bushes cast a
tempting shadow.

"Let's sit down a while," she said, pouring water on a rocket.

For a few minutes they sat in silence. The idyl had not yet begun.
From behind them came voices, and a woman's laugh startled the air
and the Poet. Nearer came the voices, and the Girl gripped the
grasses at her sides. The couple swung jauntily past without
noticing them and settled down in the long grass at the foot of the
hillock.

The Poet and the Girl were statues. Their faces were averted. From
the long grass came the noise of kisses.

The sun slipped away. The air was hot and heavy and all around was
the silence of premonition. A bird piped fretfully, and a peevish
breeze shook the leaves. The amorous couple in the long grass rose.

"Say," said the man, looking at his watch, "if we're goin' to see
that show we've got to hustle."

And they hurried away.

The Girl rose, walked a few yards, then stood gazing on the far
horizon of departed time. Then she returned.

"That was my husband," she said.

The Poet sprang to his feet as though released by a spring. His face
was gray as the sky.

"God help us both!" he cried. "The woman was my wife."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

WITHHELD

By Ella B. Argo


Every time he had tried to propose to her they had been interrupted.

There was the moonlight night on the beach when a sudden storm sent
them scurrying to shelter. Once it was in her mother's drawing-room
and callers were announced. He had almost reached the interrogation
point while dancing when a colliding couple made them slip, and for
weeks a broken ankle made her inaccessible. He might have put the
momentous question in writing, but that did not appeal to his sense
of fitness.

Lately she felt like Evangeline, since business always took him out
of New York the day before she arrived, and twice illness called her
home when he was to have met her at some resort. The Evangeline
feeling was strong to-night, because he had inexplicably failed to
keep his Miami appointment to accompany her mother and herself home,
and at the last moment they had decided to come by sea.

Then suddenly off Norfolk she came face to face with him on the
deck. She was excitedly responsive to his white-faced,
trembling-voiced rapture at seeing her, and they both forgot to make
explanations.

It was late, but they paced the deck for an hour, and every moment
of that hour she expected him to speak, although one passenger
walked disconcertingly near them.

His love had taken on a new humility, for where once he had been
masterful, impetuous, he now seemed afraid and looked at her
adoringly but despairingly, as though at some inaccessible heaven.
She fought between modesty and a desire to encourage him. The hours
flew, and he had not even sought a secluded corner. She sent away
the maid who came with her mother's summons and lingered another
moment for the words she felt were trembling on the lips beneath the
love-agonized eyes. He accepted her proud good-night without
remonstrance, although he clung to her hand as though he would never
let it go.

"This must be good-bye," he said. "The ship will dock before you are
up, and I have to make a dash for the train."

No word of future meeting.

Almost all the passengers had landed and her mother and the maid
were far ahead in the crowd when she remembered a silver cup she had
left in the stateroom. Her way back was barred first by a laughing
and weeping reunited Cuban family, and then by a group of men
excitedly discussing the quick capture of a murderer who had claimed
self-defense in a political quarrel but had run. It seemed the man
was prominent, and it sounded interesting, but her mother would
worry if she stopped.

The emotional Cuban family was again in her way. The cup was knocked
from her hand, and it rolled down the deck. She picked it up and
turned to see him framed in a door opened by the restless passenger
of the night before.

Then her sun went down in eternal blackness. He was handcuffed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

UP AND DOWN

By Bertha Lowry Gwynne


Rhyolite Rose kept always her curiously unfeminine sense of humour.
Standing in the doorway of the Bodega where nightly she accompanied
herself on a battered piano, and sang indecorous songs with the
voice of a seraph, she listened, vastly diverted, to the crap
dealer's flights of fancy.

"Get your money down, boys; six, eight, field or come--play a
favourite. Here comes the lucky man! He throwed nine, Long Liz, the
ham and egg gal."

Rhyolite was booming, and Rhyolite was fortune-mad. It was Saturday
night. Outside on Golden Street crowds surged up and down. There
were miners, promoters, engineers, cooks, crooks, tin horns and
wildcatters; good women, bad women, and boarding-house keepers.
Adventurers all; each confident that to-morrow would bring him
fortune.

The Bodega overflowed with a good-humoured crowd that stood four
deep at the bar. Around the crap table was a restless throng, drawn
by the dealer's recitative, a curious chant detailing the fortunes
of Big Dick from Boston, Little Joe, Miss Phoebe, and many more of
the fanciful folk that indicate the fall of the dice.

Mining booms a-plenty Rose had seen. For five years she had followed
them since she had first appeared in the Klondike a young girl with
a lovely face, a gentle voice, and a consuming passion for Scotch
whiskey. Each year since then had taken some of the innocence from
her face, and set deeper shadows in her eyes; each year found her
growing sadder till evening came, and then very gay, indeed; for by
night Rose's sorrow, whatever it was, had been drowned in a square
bottle.

The pasty-faced crap dealer droned on: "Now and then I earn a small
one," he was saying. "Miss Ada, yore maw wants you----"

He faltered, and came to a pause. A shot had sounded on the street
outside, and almost instantly the saloon was emptied.

Following the crowd, and still smiling, went Rhyolite Rose. She
gathered from snatches of agitated conversation that "Sidewinder,"
the camp's bad man, in shooting at an unbearable acquaintance, had
killed a stranger.

Not dead, but desperately wounded, the man lay on the boardwalk.
Rose pushed her way to his side. As she looked down upon him her
face blanched, the red of her cheeks standing out in odd relief.

"He's a friend of mine," she said to the men around her. "Take him
to my cabin, and send for the doctor."

Rose darted into the saloon, and snatching a decanter of whiskey,
saturated her handkerchief with it. As she ran she rubbed the rouge
from her face. She passed the little procession, and reaching her
cabin made preparations for the man's coming. That done, she dug
into a trunk, taking from it a much-crumpled dress. Hastily she put
it on.

The unconscious man was laid on the bed, and in a few minutes the
doctor came. He gazed at Rose astounded. She was garbed in the habit
of a novitiate of a nursing sisterhood.

"What the----" he began. She interrupted him, and underneath her
flippancy the man saw real misery.

"It's _Sister_ Rose now," the woman said. "I shed my sins with my
scenery. Get me?"

The doctor nodded. Carefully he tended the wounded man.

"There is nothing we can do," he said at length. "He is dying."

"Suits me, Doc," said Rose.

He left, and the woman sat quietly by the bed, her face set, her
body tense, waiting. In a little while the man opened his eyes, and
she saw that he knew her. She leaned over and lifted him into her
arms. His head rested on her thin bosom.

"Little Sister, is it true?" he said in a whisper. "I dream so much.
Every night and every night I dream that I have found you. I have
hunted for you so long, Little Sister; everywhere; up and down the
whole world." His voice died out.

When he spoke again it was with an effort. "The other woman ... she
didn't count. When you left I went mad." He raised himself with a
burst of strength, his face distorted. "It was the uncertainty, the
uncertainty! You were so little," he muttered. "I have looked for
you," he repeated, drearily, "everywhere up and down the whole
world."

"Never mind." Rose spoke serenely. Subtly, indefinably she had
become again a gentlewoman. "Oh, my dearest, _yes_, I forgive you.
God has watched over _me_, honey. There is a typhoid epidemic here.
The sisters sent me."

The man gave a long sigh. "My little girl, unhurt."

She laid him down, and he drowsed awhile. Just before dawn he
stirred.

"Sing, Little Sister," he whispered.

    "I am far frae my hame
    I am weary aften whiles----"

Rose sang a song of her childhood. Her voice had withstood the
ravages of cigarette smoke, whiskey, and overstrain. It rose clear
and true,

    "Like a bairn to its mither,
    A wee----"

"Little Sister!" She bent to hear him.

"I have looked for you everywhere; up and down----" he was dead.

Tearless, Rose sat by the bed a long time. She came to herself with
a sudden start.

In the dead man's hands she placed a crucifix; and, kneeling, with
little lapses of memory, she recited the prayer for the dead.

Then, as if moved by some force without herself, with eyes staring,
she rose from her knees and hurried to the kitchen. She took down
from a shelf a bottle of Scotch whiskey. With fingers that trembled
she poured herself out a long drink.

"Now and then I earn a small one," said Rhyolite Rose.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE ANSWER

By Harry Stillwell Edwards


The dim lights of the old pawnbroker's shop flickered violently as
the street door opened, letting in a gust of icy wind. The man who
came with the wind closed the door with difficulty, approached the
low desk, took off his thin coat, shook the sleet from it and laid
it on the counter.

"As much as ye can," he said crisply. "'Tis me last!"

The broker measured the garment with a careless glance and tossed
fifty cents on the counter.

"Come wanst more, me friend! 'Tis not enough for the illegant coat."

Pathos did not appeal often to the old dealer, but this time it did.
A vibration in the voice exactly fitted the mystery of something
buried deep in the subconsciousness. He questioned the other with a
swift glance, hesitated, and by the coin laid another like it. The
man nodded.

"'Tis little enough, but 'twill do."

He took a pencil from the desk and with much effort wrote a few
lines on a bit of wrapping paper. Straightening, he fixed a steady
gaze on the old face turned, not unkindly, to his.

"We have known aiche ither more'n a bit. Ye know I'm not th'
drunkard nor th' loafer. I know ye aire a har-r-d man--ye have to
be in this trade, har-r-d but square. I am off for good and all;
'tis for the sake of the gyrul and the little man. She'll not go
home till I lave her. Sind th' money and the line to the place it
spells; 'twill pay her way home--they'll take her, without me; they
have said it. Will ye do it?"

The old man looked away from him and was silent.

"Yes!" he said, at length.

They waited and then shook hands, for no reason, after the fashion
of men.

"What have you been doing of late?" a voice broke in that was
clear-cut, sharp, and almost offensively authoritative. It came from
a third man standing near, unnoticed. The coatless stranger regarded
him steadily, his face hardening. He saw a short, rotund figure,
almost swallowed up in a fur coat now thrown open, a heavy chain
across the prominent paunch, an enormous diamond above, a prominent
curved nose and sweeping black moustache. An elbow on the counter
supported a jewelled hand that poised a fat black cigar with an ash
half an inch long.

The eyes of the two men met, Celt and Hebrew. A moment of strained
silence and something passed. What? Eternity's messages travel many
channels. The Irishman's resentment faded; his lips framed a slow,
sardonic grin.

"Me? Sure, I been searchin' for the Christ! Do ye mind that ye saw
Him along the way ye came?"

"No," said the other simply. "He does not live in New York! You
spoke of going for good. Where--without a coat--by the bridge
route?"

"An' is't your business?" The Irish blood flared.

"Perhaps," replied the Hebrew, coolly flicking the ash. And then:

"Wouldn't you rather put it off and take a job?"

The red faded from the face in front of him, the pale lips parted in
silence, and one hand caught the counter.

"If you would, come to my place, The Star Pool and Billiard Palace,
four blocks above the Bridge, and I'll start you at twelve and a
half a week. One of my men skipped with forty dollars' worth of
billiard balls yesterday--I am looking for them now. You can have
his job. A man who will pawn his coat a night like this for his wife
and baby and don't get drunk won't steal billiard balls. It's a
business proposition."

He drew from his pocket a fat roll of bills and peeled off a five.

"Take this on account," he concluded, studiously avoiding the
other's gaze. "It will loosen up things at home until to-morrow.
Here, take your coat along."

From the door the Irishman rushed back, seized the garment, extended
his hand, but suddenly withdrew it.

"Not now, sor," he stammered brokenly. "Sure, I can't say it! I'll
say it ivery day I work for ye."

"Good! You're all right! Now hustle, my boy!"

                   *       *       *       *       *

The woman in the room sat prone on the floor, her thin shawl
sheltering herself and wailing infant. Not an article of furniture
remained, not even her little charcoal burner--it had been the last
to go. The firm, quick footsteps in the hallway carried a message
that brought her face up and drew her eager gaze to the door. The
man who stepped within carried an armful of packages. With her eyes
riveted on these, her own arms tightened around the emaciated form
she held.

"Maery!" said the newcomer gently. "Ye have been telling me I'd be
finding the Christ Child if I tried hard--I do remember ye said He
always came to the pooer an' sick first; to the honest an' thrue!
Ye knew, Maery, me girl! Sure, it's in the holy name of ye--the
faith. Well, I found Him to-night!"

He stood silent, his lips twitching and his face drawn against an
emotion that shamed him.

A wordless cry came from the woman. She struggled to her knees and
leaned toward him, her eyes shining with the light that ever is on
land and sea where angels pass.

"Mike! Where?"

The packages slipped from Mike's arms to the floor, and his lifted
face blanched with the wonder of some far-away scene, and a
revelation undreamed of in his hard, narrow life. And then with a
twinkle in his Irish eyes:

"In the heart of a Jew," he whispered.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

PATCHES

By Francis E. Norris


Van Gilder, although worth an easy million in his own name, was
proud to be able to write M. D. after it. He had a practice, to be
sure, but it was mostly upon poor dumb beasts made sick or otherwise
to suit his passing purpose. This engrossed most of his time and
attention. "It was so fascinating." This pastime was called
research, and, being a man of means, he could devote himself at will
to it.

And so it happened that one day when on his way to the laboratories
he chanced to see the very specimen he "needed" for the day's
investigation. It was indeed a poor, wretched beast by the side of a
still more wretched human who was on the corner begging. This was
luck. Van Gilder usually was lucky.

He stopped his electric alongside the curb and approached the pair.

"Mister, would y' be kind enough----"

"Yes, surely, I can help you. Here's ten dollars for your dog."

"Ten dollars? For Patches? Oh, no."

"Well, then, make it twenty-five. You need the money, and the dog
will be out of your way."

"Patches? Sell him for twenty-five? To get him out of the way?" The
wretched, shrivelled soul seemed dazed. "Why, sir, not for a
thousand could you have that dog."

It was now Van Gilder's turn to be puzzled. Nay, more; he was
interested. Here was a man wretched, destitute, in the clutches of
poverty, yet he said that not for a thousand dollars would he part
with a mere useless dog. _Could_ he mean it? Could a dog mean that
much to any one? Or was he merely speaking in hyperbole? The
question held Van Gilder. A thousand dollars. What would he do if
actually offered a thousand dollars? This was research along a new
line, but Van Gilder was determined to find out. A trip to the bank,
and he returned with ten one-hundred-dollar bills.

"You say you wouldn't sell that cur for a thousand dollars?"

"Not for a thousand dollars--would I, Patches?"

"Y' sure? Here's a thousand dollars. Can I take the dog?"

The sad, drawn face looked at the ten crisp golden bills as if in a
trance, but never for a moment did the owner waver.

"No, not for a thousand. Patches and I have seen better days,
comrades we've been for years; he is as loyal to me to-day as ever,
and we'll not part till death does it. I could not sell my best
friend, could I, Patches? All the rest have left me, but _you_ have
never once complained, have you, old fellow? No, my friend, I'm
pretty low, but I'll never be as low as that. I thank you for the
offer, but I can't accept."

Van Gilder, a puzzled, thoughtful man, got into his car and drove
off. But not to the laboratories. Like Saul on the road to Damascus,
a new light had burst upon him.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE ARM AT GRAVELOTTE

By William Almon Wolff


He was an old man, with snow-white hair and a patriarch's beard. One
sleeve of his coat was empty. He had lived in the village for many
years--since five years after the great war, men said. He had
prospered; when the new war of 1914 broke out he was the largest
landholder for miles around.

It was not far from the French border, this village of which Hans
Schmidt was patriarch. It had no railway station, but a line of rail
came to it and ended in long platforms in open fields. Twice, of
late years, trains had rolled up beside those platforms, discharging
soldiers of the Fatherland, engaged in man≈ìuvres. Now, in the first
week of August, there was real use for the platforms. For three days
trains rolled up in a never-ending procession, discharging their
living freight of men in a misty, gray-green uniform that melted
into the background of grass and shrubs at a hundred paces, with
even the spikes of their helmets covered with cloth.

Westward moved the soldiers, like a swarm of locusts. But they left
something behind, an integral part of themselves, their collective
brain. About the house of Hans Schmidt sentries were posted.
Mechanics, working quietly, swiftly, as if they had known long since
what they must do, laid wires into his modest parlour, connected it
by telephone and telegraph with Berlin, with the ever-moving forces
to the west. In Hans Schmidt's bed slept a corps commander; the
whole house was given up to the staff. He himself was allowed a cot
in the kitchen. His house was chosen for headquarters.

From the parlour the general ordered the movements of forty thousand
men, playing their part, like a piece in a game of chess, in the
plan of invasion of the Great Headquarters Staff. Vastly important
were these movements; each corps must co√∂rdinate absolutely with
every other. Confusion here might ruin the whole great plan.

The high-born general was very busy. But on the second day he
deigned to notice Hans Schmidt, who had drawn back, his one arm
raised in the salute, as the general passed him.

"_Ach!_" said the general. "You have lost an arm! An old soldier,
_nicht wahr_?"

"Yes, my general. I left my arm at Gravelotte."

"So! I was in that business, too. I got my company that day, when
Steinmetz lost half his corps. _Ach!_ This time we shall finish them
even more quickly! Von Kluck is halfway through Belgium; the Crown
Prince is hammering at Verdun! We shall be in Paris within the
month!"

Hans Schmidt listened respectfully, as became him. The general went
to his desk. Hans Schmidt, in his garden, looked at the western sky.
Flying low, nearby, was an aeroplane, blunt, snub-nosed. He knew it
for a Taube, though no monoplanes had circled over Gravelotte. It
turned, and flew eastward, out of sight. Still he peered into the
west. High in the air something flashed gold in the rays of the sun,
shining upward from behind a cloud. Hans Schmidt went slowly into
the kitchen.

There a hot, smokeless fire of hard coal burned to roast two
suckling pigs for the dinner of the general and the high-born
officers of the staff. He sent out a maid whose duty it was to watch
the pigs. Hans Schmidt took a bag from his pocket, emptied it into
the fire, added a pile of kindling wood. He went back into the
garden. Thoughtfully he looked at the chimney, from which there rose
suddenly a thick column of oily black smoke. Straight up it went,
higher and higher.

"In Berlin you would be fined for that," said a young staff officer,
coming up beside him.

"The maids are careless," answered the patriot.

The officer gaped at the smoke. Hans Schmidt looked to the west.
Again he caught the gleam of the sun on metal. From the west a
monoplane was coming, flying like a hawk. It took shape. A mile away
a gun spoke; another, and another. Above, below the monoplane, hung
three fleecy balls of white smoke, where shells had burst. Followed
a volley. Other officers came from the house to stare upward. On
came the monoplane.

"A French flyer!" cried one.

It was overhead. It paused in its flight, circled. A tiny black
thing hurtled down. The side wall of Hans Schmidt's house vanished.
In a moment more there was no house--only a heap of smoking ruins.
Amid fused wires a thing that had been a man, in the uniform of a
general, dragged itself, shrieking, till it died.

"The smoke!" cried an officer. "It was a signal! Headquarters was
betrayed!"

"Fools!" cried Hans Schmidt, as they turned on him. "The arm I left
at Gravelotte carried a French _chassep√¥t_! _Vive la France! Vive
Alsace--jamais plus Elsass! Vive la rep_----"

A revolver spat in his face. But as he lay his staring eyes were
turned to the west, to a monoplane that was flying home to France.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE BAD MAN

By Harry C. Goodwin


"Prisoner to the bar," called the Clerk of the Court.

The prisoner came forward, closely followed by a dog, which, because
it had been evidence during the trial, had become known as Exhibit
A. In one hand the man held what might have been a hat when new. The
other hand hung at his side so the dog could reach up and give it an
affectionate lick now and then--when the man needed sympathy and
encouragement.

In answer to questions put, the prisoner said he was John Brent,
twenty-seven years old, and his mother's name was Mary.

"And your father's name?" asked the clerk, thinking Brent had
overlooked this detail.

"Never had none."

The judge looked up, glanced in sympathy at the prisoner, then
looked down again.

The famous Von Betz, who had caused Brent's arrest and trial,
sneered.

Some women present, attracted by the high social and professional
standing of the great Von Betz, looked shocked.

Possibly they were shocked.

Exhibit A moved closer and gave the hand of his master two or three
encouraging licks and wagged his tail joyfully in recognition of the
prisoner's friendly smile.

"The jury," said the judge, "has found you guilty of assault, with
intent to kill, on the person of Dr. Enrich Von Betz. You have had a
fair trial. The evidence seems to justify the verdict. Have you
anything to say why sentence should not be passed?"

"I would like to say something, judge, 'cause I got a hunch you'll
understand. I got a feelin' you'd done the same thing I did. I never
had a father, and the world seems to blame me. But it wasn't my
fault, and I've never blamed my mother, neither. She was a good
girl. I've had a pretty tough time--nobody but my mother, the dog,
and God has given me a square deal. Sometimes God forgot, I guess."

The judge leaned forward, interested. The dog licked the prisoner's
hand and wagged his tail. Thus encouraged, Brent continued:

"There ain't been a day since my mother died that some one ain't
come along and made me feel in the way. Every time I'd get a new
start some one would say I didn't have a father, an' back I'd go.

"I got to thinkin' I must be a pretty bad man until Yip, the dog,
fell in with me three years ago. Guess he saw somethin' in me others
didn't. He didn't ask if I had a father. He's stuck by me, he's
starved fer me, an I've starved fer him. Just see how he looks at
me, judge. A dog don't look at a man like that unless he sees some
good in all the bad.

"I pulled Yip out from under a trolley car and went under myself.
They took me to the hospital and sent Yip to the pound. I was in for
a long time, and on the day I left I did this thing I'm going up
for.

"I was passing a building on the grounds when I heard a dog yelp. It
was Yip. I don't know how I got in, but I did. I don't know exactly
what I did when I got in. I guess I did come near killing the
doctor.

"But judge," and his voice grew thick from anger, "when I got in I
saw Yip stretched out on his back. They had straps pulling his legs
one way and his head another way so he couldn't move. All he could
do was cry--cry just like a baby that knows he's being hurt but
don't know why.

"And the doctor, judge, was standing over Yip and the knife in his
hand was all bloody."

"Go on," said the judge.

"I ain't got anything more to say, except that I want you to send
Yip along when you send me away. If you don't, judge, and the doctor
gets Yip and kills him, I'll kill the doctor when I gets out,
because I've got just as much right fer killin' the doctor as he's
got to kill Yip. That's all I got to say, judge."

"I know how you feel, Brent," said the judge, in a rather husky
voice. "I've got a dog at home--a dog like Yip. And--and--but
duty compels me to sentence you to ten years at hard labour, and I
impose a similar sentence on the dog Yip----"

"Thanks, judge, thanks, fer sending Yip along. You know, judge. You
got a heart, you got feelings, just like Yip and your dog has.
You----"

"But in view of the circumstances that provoked the assault,"
interrupted the judge, "I'll suspend your sentence during good
behaviour."

"But Yip," begged the man without a father.

"I'll suspend Yip's sentence, too," smiled the judge.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

NEMESIS

By Mary Clark


The Little White Mare stirred uneasily in the narrow stall, and
shifted her weight from one three-legged balance to another. There
was no room to lie down, and the warm stench of ankle-deep manure
could not rise as far as the small opening where, occasionally,
penetrated a flickering beam from the arc light at the corner.

The day's work had been hard, and supper inadequate; in her dreams
there came the taste of a carrot, succulent, crunchy, tender, but
solid, a carrot such as the little boy used to give her--the little
boy who lived on the long street of the hard pavement and the many
car-tracks. That was in the days when Estevan and she had carried
fruit and vegetables in the old cart, and pleasantly, had stopped
before many houses, often three and four times in a block. By her
association memory (the only memory psychologists allow her kind)
she recognized that street whenever she crossed it in her
journeys--the Street of the Carrots.

But, latterly, they carried other things in the cart, heavy, jangly
things, queer, knobby sacks that Estevan gathered hastily, a few at
a time, at strange hours, in quiet places. In night journeys to dark
alleys and courtyards the loads were transferred to other Mexicans,
who counted small jingling pieces into Estevan's ready palm.
Nowadays there were no carrots, no rest under spreading cottonwoods
and chinaberries. With Estevan there never had been anything to
associate but work and blows. Such is life--far too little dirty
water from a dirty pail; roughage for food, with, now and then, a
grudging heap of cheapest grain; a galling harness; a filthy stall;
work--never-ending work; a child and a carrot the only memory of a
kindness!

El Paso she knew, not as you know it--its mountain vistas, its
blocks of substantial homes and pleasant bungalows, but as her
half-starved, rickety old frame knew it: hard-paved streets that
hurt her feet; dreadful, unpaved ones where she stumbled in the ruts
and mud or choked with dust; the mountain winds of winter; the
wicked summer gusts that gather up adjacent Mexico and blow it to
the Mesa, only, a few days later, to resume the burden and with it
madly assail Mt. Franklin; the cruel summer heat when, afternoon
long, Estevan dozed in the cool 'dobe while she stood in the
pitiless glare, harnessed and helpless, envious of the paltry,
flapping shadow cast by the red rag that floated over the
abarroteria, telling, though she neither knew nor cared, that carne,
fresh carne, was for sale that day. And heat, glare, red rag,
dreadful streets of Chihuahuita, their memory association
was--flies, millions, billions, black, busy, buzzing, biting flies.

Now, even in her sleep, she heard them.

Disturbed in their myriad sleep, the flies buzzed mightily.
Estevan's heavy slap fell on her shoulder, and in the starry
darkness he hustled her out of the stall and into harness. Past dark
rows of 'dobes and one-storied shops--jog--jog; jolt--jolt over
rough tracks where the shrieking engines run; a smothered "'Spero"
brought the Little White Mare to an obedient halt in the black
shadow of a freight-car.

Men waited there for Estevan, there were signs and whispers. What
business of hers! She lowered her head to nose a pile of sacks; one
was torn; cautiously she smelled, then licked it. Heavenly! a
substance rough like salt, that turned magically on one's tongue to
smooth, slippery, ineffable sweetness! Sugar it was, a carload, sent
from dangerous Mexico to the safety of these United States. In the
deep shadow the thieves skilfully shifted the sacks from the car to
Estevan, who swung them into his cart.

Something amiss! The men muttered to each other, crouched, dropped
from cart to car, disappeared in the black beyond. Industriously the
Little White Mare nuzzled the torn burlap into whose folds the
delightful fodder was receding.

Dazzling light--big men--men different from
Estevan--everywhere--in the cart--around it at her head.

"Vamoosed! Hell take it!" was the verdict.

"And will you look who's here," cried the biggest, turning his torch
on the laden cart. "Lord love you, it's a haul for a Packard truck!
They sure got this old bonebag anchored! Must be a ton or two on
that wagon. Well, men, shift most of this to the patrol, seal the
car, and run in this outfit as evidence."

The Little White Mare stood at ease, contented, warm and sleepy,
while the big man at her head rubbed back of her ear in a delightful
and unaccustomed way.

The patrol whirled away.

"All right, Bourke," they called, "you can escort the corpse."

"Look out for the speed-cop, bo. It's four blocks to the boneyard."

Bourke swung into the driver's seat, clucked comfortably, and always
obedient, the Little White Mare turned from the freight yard into
the dusty road.

A strange creature, this man with the big, soft hands--no sharp,
jerking rein, the whip, forgotten; maybe he slept; when Estevan
slept he awoke with, always, a crueler lash.

For all animals Bourke had a tender friendliness, and the sight of
the scarred, decrepit back patiently jogging between the shafts
irritated him, as did the nervous wince the old mare gave when he
joggled the whip-handle in the broken socket. The idea grew in grim
delectability that she might, of her own habit, deliver her
tormentor to the law.

"Now's your chance to get even, old girl," he muttered; then louder,
"take me to him--_casa--sige casa!_"

Reins flat on her back, a full stomach and an easy mind, that
strange association memory said to the Little White Mare that it was
time to be at home, in the dirty stall, with the empty manger and
the sleeping flies.

Jog, jog, past the sleeping 'dobes, past the shops, into the
familiar alley--home, at last!

Bourke was gone; from the house beyond the stable partition came
Estevan's voice, high, whining, pleading.

A shrill whistle outside; other voices; the whir of the patrol
speeding townward; silence; sleep.

The Little White Mare was avenged.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE BLACK DOOR

By Gordon Seagrove


"Lieutenant Townley," said Captain Von Dee sharply, "as a spy you
will be executed in two hours. Pursuant to my custom you will be
given a choice in the matter. Either you may elect to be shot in the
customary manner, or you may pass through the Black Door which you
see behind me. State your choice when the hour comes."

Von Dee--"Von Dee the whimsical" they called him in the
trenches--turned to his reports while Lieutenant Townley was led
back to the cell. A great hopelessness fell upon the latter. So this
was the end then? All his hopes, his plans with regard to marriage
to Cecile were to be swept away. It was difficult to realize that in
another hour he would be separated by an unfathomable void from the
woman whom he loved like life itself and trusted like no man had
ever trusted woman before.

"Shot ... or the Black Door...." Von Dee's words came back to
him. What horrible fate--which legend held was worse than
death--met those who passed beyond the Black Door? He knew that not
one of death prisoners had dared to pass beyond it. Each had chosen
death at the hands of the firing squad.

A half hour passed. Then, suddenly, a scrap of paper fluttered into
his hands. He opened it and read:

"Choose the Black Door. I know." It was signed Cecile.

Now the hour for the execution could not come soon enough. Cecile
had remembered! Cecile had saved him. Perhaps behind the Black Door
he would only be maimed or crippled and could go back to Cecile. As
the guards led him into Von Dee's quarters his heart pounded gladly.
In the gloom of the room he could see Von Dee and a stranger
talking. In another moment he would tell Captain Von Dee that he,
Lieutenant Townley, elected to pass through the Black Door.

He waited. Apparently his presence was not noted. He could hear
scraps of conversation: "I've always maintained," Von Dee was
saying, "that, no matter how brave a man, he will choose a known
form of death rather than an unknown...."

There was a lull, and then the other voice said: "And you are the
only one who knows what lies beyond the Black Door?"

"No," Von Dee answered his brother. "A woman knows." Then he added
with a light laugh: "She was a former mistress of mine!"

Lieutenant Townley heard, trembled, turned white, then stiffened.
Von Dee was before him, talking. "Well, Lieutenant," he said, "do
you elect the Black Door?"

"I do not!" the prisoner answered. Von Dee nodded to the guards who
led Lieutenant Townley away. A moment later came the report of the
firing squad on the drill grounds.

"What did I tell you!" cried Von Dee to his brother. "Lieutenant
Townley, one of the bravest, couldn't face the unknown. He went the
usual way." For several moments he puffed his cigar silently, then:
"Birwitz," he asked suddenly, "do you know what lies beyond the
Black Door?"

The younger Von Dee shook his head.

"Freedom," said Captain Von Dee. "And I've never met a man brave
enough to take it!"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE MAN WHO TOLD

By John Cutler


Toward midnight in the smoking-room of the trans-Atlantic liner
Howard, the author, held forth on realism and romance. In one of his
pauses another of the company broke in:

"Realism," said the interrupter, "is but the word with which those
who can see nothing but the ordinary and humdrum in life try to
excuse their blindness to the romances that unfold themselves all
about us every day. The last time I heard the doctrine of realism
preached was in the home of a wealthy New Yorker who declared that
in his life there had never been the least tinge of the unusual or
the romantic. He had never fallen in love and never had any
adventures. Three days later in the morning he was found seated in a
chair on the piazza of his summer home dead from a stab wound
through the heart. Three hundred thousand dollars in cash which he
had received from the sale of a block of bonds was missing from his
office safe where he had placed it the preceding late afternoon
because his bank was closed. The only clue found to the murderer was
a blood-stained stiletto which was discovered between the Old and
the New Testaments in a big family Bible on a high shelf in the
library of the murdered man's summer home. The mystery of the murder
was never solved."

"The plot of a very interesting story," commented Howard and went on
with his monologue. A little later the party broke up. On his way to
his stateroom Winton, who had been one of them, dropped in at the
wireless room and sent a message.

Three days later at the New York pier the man who had interrupted
Howard was arrested for murder committed four years before. "I was
once a member of the force," explained Winton to Howard; "that
stiletto was never found until he told where to look for it that
night in the smoking-room."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE UNANSWERED CALL

By Thomas T. Hoyne


Six months of married life had not staled the two great adventures
in each week day of Delia Hetherington's placid existence--the
morning leavetaking and the evening return of her husband. His
departure was a climax of lingering kisses, admonitions, and
exhortations; his return a triumph. Did he not put all to the touch
with Fortune at every parting and go forth to strive all day, a
dauntless hero, 'mid motor juggernauts and rushing trolley cars,
'neath dangling safes and dropping tiles, beside treacherous
pitfalls and yawning manholes? But ever he bore a charmed life and
returned to his love in the dark of the evening with thrilling tales
of his salesmanship and of repartee to his boss.

Delia hummed a plaintive, childish melody as she set the little,
round dining-table for two persons. As is the habit of brides, she
laid the places side by side instead of opposite each other. A light
shadow of curiosity flickered across her mind, and she carefully
laid a saucer on the table to note the effect of a third place. She
snatched it up again, blushing, although there was no one else in
all the length and breadth of the four-room apartment where she and
Fred, upheld by the installment plan, had built their nest. She
resumed her singing, bird-like in its thin simplicity. Such a song,
one could imagine, Mrs. Cock Robin sang while awaiting the
home-coming of her mate.

A soft knocking at the back door drew Delia from happy contemplation
of the glistening forks that lay beside the two plates on the
dining-room table. She hurried into the kitchen, wisely remembering
Fred's insistence that she must never unlock the screen door to a
stranger before she discovered his design. No well-dressed youth
seeking to pay his way through college by getting subscriptions for
"The Woman's Life and Fashion Bazaar" could find in his patter the
countersign to win him admittance; no grizzled gypsy with shining
tins to barter for old shoes knew the magic word to make the hook
fly up under Delia's cautious hand.

But the man who stood on the narrow porch, panting like a Marathon
runner, was none of these.

"The steps," he gasped, pressing one hand over his heart, "too much
for me."

To climb the four flights of stairs to the Hetherington apartment at
the top of the building was a test for a strong man. He who knocked
at the screen door was slight in build and looked ill.

With quick sympathy Delia unhooked the door and pushed it open.

"Come in and sit down a minute," she said gently.

The man staggered across the threshold and dropped into the chair
she offered him. The screen door shut with a slam.

He shivered as if a draft of icy air had struck him.

"Close the inside door--quick," he panted; and Delia, under the
spell of her sympathy, obeyed without thought.

"It's too bad to trouble you," he said nervously, "but I'm not a
well man."

Delia handed him a glass of water. He sipped at it between gasps.

"Don't light the gas," he cried sharply.

Delia had scratched a match, for night was falling rapidly. She
snapped out the little flame and looked at him half afraid.

"Just let me rest a moment," he said. "There's no harm in me. I
couldn't hurt a baby if I wanted to."

He almost whimpered as he looked curiously around the room.

"You're all alone, eh? I'm glad you weren't afraid to let me in.
Some women would have left me standing out there."

"What would I be afraid of?" she asked simply, feeling uneasy
nevertheless.

"Oh, I don't know," he answered irritably. "Only most people seem to
be afraid of a sick man. They don't want him around. They won't give
him a chance."

"That can't be so," said Delia. "Every one naturally feels sorry for
a sick person."

"No, they don't," he contradicted roughly. "Do you know what would
happen if I fainted in the street? Do you think any one would help
me? Not much. I could lie there like a dog while the crowd went by.
The men would laugh; the women would say, 'Disgusting.' I know. It
has happened to me."

He coughed slightly and finished the glass of water.

A faint sound outdoors caught his ear. He stepped quickly to the
window and peered out. Starved and unkempt he looked, but a quaint
neatness about his clothing hinted at the regular habits of a
workingman.

He turned to Delia suddenly.

"I've got to tell you," he whispered swiftly. "They're coming up
here. You've got some sympathy for a man and you ain't afraid."

She looked at him and began to understand.

"I'm a thief," he said bluntly, and gulped on the word. "I stole a
few dollars and the police are after me."

"A thief!" she cried, staring at him. "I have no money."

"I know, I know," he mumbled in desperate hurry. "I don't want to
rob you. I want to get away. I was forced to do it."

"Forced!"

"We were starving. I'm married, the same as you are. Wouldn't your
husband steal for you?"

He stopped short and listened. Loud knocking sounded somewhere
below.

"All I want you to do is to let me out the front door; and don't
tell. Say you didn't see me."

Already he had shuffled through the dining-room, Delia following him
into the narrow, short, dark hall.

"If any one knocks don't answer," he whispered. "Don't light any
lights."

He opened the front door cautiously.

"They'll think no one's here." He turned and looked at her. "It'll
give me a chance--just a chance is all I want. You'll never be
sorry."

He closed the door softly behind him.

Delia stood listening, breathless.

Voices questioned and answered on the porch below, but she could not
distinguish the words. She felt as if she herself were guilty of
some crime.

Suddenly the telephone bell on the wall beside her rang with
startling abruptness.

She did not move. Heavy feet were mounting the stairs to the back
porch.

Again the telephone rang out against the stillness in the little
apartment.

She dared not move, but stood pressed against the wall. Through the
darkness she could see the doorway into the lighter kitchen like a
black frame.

The telephone rang again, long and insistently.

Heavy knocking shook the back door, but it got no response from
Delia. There was a pause of silence and then a voice cried out with
the rapidity of excitement:

"No one's home, Jim. He couldn't get through here."

This was what she had been listening for.

The noise of descending footsteps died away.

Delia sprang to the telephone and waited eagerly. But the bell did
not ring again.

                   *       *       *       *       *

"Any trace of him, Jim?" asked the desk sergeant, as the big
patrolman entered the police station.

"Naw. Anybody identify the body?"

"He had cards on him that gave his name and address. The poor guy
never knew what hit him. He didn't get the chance to give up his
dough; one white-livered sneak croaked him from behind with a piece
of lead pipe. We called up his home, but couldn't raise anybody."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE WOMEN IN THE CASE

By Mary Sams Cooke


Jack Burroughs' dog broke from him and made a sudden dive down the
first opening. The usual clear whistle made no impression. "Jim" was
off. Jack quickly followed, and to his relief saw a big Irishman
patting "Jim's" head; "Jim," with unmistakable signs of delight,
jumping up and down and rubbing against the man.

That started the strange friendship between Jack Burroughs, lawyer,
sportsman, and Dennis O'Sullivan.

Dennis lived in the last house on "Grasshopper Hill." It was a
little less ramshackle, a little more independent looking than the
rest of the row that faced on a small bluff above the railroad
tracks, and its garden bloomed like a rose. Dennis himself was
large, burly, rather red of face, but with the twinkling blue eyes
and the genial courtesy of the true son of Erin.

Later Dennis brought out to the almost palatial suburban home of
Jack Burroughs rare bulbs and old-fashioned flowers; Jack got Dennis
to help him in making his own garden beautiful.

As the war dragged its fearful way along they, strange to say, never
even mentioned it, until one day in June suddenly Jack said:
"Dennis, I have written to a cousin in England to know if it's
possible for me to get a commission in the English army."

Dennis looked up from the border he was working and demanded:

"For why and I would like to know?"

"Well, Dennis, you see, my great-grandfather was an Irish patriot,
and came over here during Emmet's rebellion; but now Ireland needs
me, and I'm going."

"From what part of the ould country was yer grandfather?"

"Oh, from near Lough Neagh."

"Are ye maning County Antrim, Misther Burroughs?"

"Sure, Dennis."

"Thin I'm yer boy, and will go with ye."

Jack was rather startled, but on second thought he decided to take
the risk.

"Dennis, will you sign the pledge if I take you?"

Dennis' blue eyes twinkled, and with a comical smile he lifted his
cap from his fiery head and said, "Shure, yer honour."

Both gardens bloomed gayly in the June sunshine; both men talked and
worked and planned in secret for their swift going. At last the
letter came.

Jack, as gay as a boy, went first to Dennis. "Come out to the house
to-night, Dennis, and we will make our final arrangements."

"Ye can count on me, and I will be that grateful to ye for the whole
o' me life."

With this letter held high, Jack, with "Jim" at his heels, gayly
waved it to a sweet girl that he caught a glimpse of on a
neighbouring porch.

"Can I come in, Eleanor?" he called.

The blue eyes gave him welcome. He sat on the lower step and,
leaning against the post, looked up at the girl.

"Eleanor, I am off to the war!"

The smile froze on the sweet lips, the slender, strong hands
clenched, but the girl's voice was quiet as she answered:

"I hardly understand, Jack."

Then he eagerly explained how his cousins in England, with the same
strain of Irish blood in their veins, were fighting--nay, some
dying--on the battlefields in France, and call had come to him, and
he must go.

He stood tall and straight, his gray eyes flashing--those eyes she
so loved--his head thrown back. Ah! The girl felt he would lead his
men even unto death. He gave his warm, merry smile; surely she would
understand.

"Sit down, Jack dear. Yes, I understand," she smiled into those
eager eyes; "but you do not understand. No, wait, please--you are
an American, Jack, first, last, and all the time; and now soon, only
too soon, your country might need all such men as you. You cannot
desert your country now! You cannot, cannot, Jack, dear!"

And Jack understood.

How to tell Dennis, how to break the news to him; what was he to
say?

As later he saw the big man walking slowly up the path Dennis
touched his cap to Jack.

"Will ye pardon me pipe, Misther Burroughs, being that low in me
mind I kinnot spake without it?"

Jack smiled.

"I am a bit low meself, Dennis."

"Well, I had best out with it like a man, Misther Burroughs. I went
to spake to me Nora and she said, 'Dennis O'Sullivan, have ye lost
the little bits o' wits ye be blessed with? Not one foot do ye stir
from your own country. Did ye not become an American citizen this
five years back?' And, shure, Misther Burroughs, 'twas true the word
she spake!"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE CAT CAME BACK

By Virginia West


Leonard Raymond was temperamentally a naturalist. Had circumstances
not compelled him to make a living he would no doubt have been an
Audubon, or a Gray. He spent his spare moments studying the habits
of the living things about town, English sparrows, pigeons, stray
cats, homeless dogs, and so forth. Old man Peterkin, whose wife kept
the boarding-house at which Raymond was getting his meals, who did
nothing but collect the board bills, grow fat, and hold the position
of church deacon, had told him that the crows in the cupola of the
Eutaw Place synagogue had been nesting there for eleven years.
Raymond did not know whether to regard that as an interesting item
about crows, or as evidence against Mr. Peterkin's veracity.
However, Mr. Peterkin and the crows have nothing to do with this
story.

In the backyard of the Linden Avenue house in which he lived with
his married sister Raymond raised flowers, and on Sundays and
holidays he would often go to the country to study the wild flowers
and the birds.

One summer evening he sat in the backyard among the flowers. He was
hot and lonesome, the thermometer being close to ninety, the family
being out of town, and no vacation for himself in sight. To-morrow,
he reflected, he would return to his post of teller in the bank, and
hand out more money than he would ever own in a lifetime; the day
after he would do the same thing----

His melancholy reflections were broken in upon by what seemed to be
a ball of fire on top of the tall board fence. In an instant it
disappeared, and he saw the long black form of a cat slide down the
fence, and light in the yard. The beast went to a garbage can in the
corner of the yard, sniffed about it, observed that the lid was on,
and then, turning the gleaming ball upon Raymond, sprang up the
fence and disappeared.

The same thing happened the next evening. On the third evening when
the cat appeared Raymond advanced cautiously, and tried to be
friendly. The cat hesitated, but when the man's hand was almost on
him he streaked up, and over the fence.

The following evening when Raymond walked uptown from the bank, as
he approached Richmond market he thought of the cat, and stopping at
a stall bought a small portion of meat.

The meat was put on the ground near the fence on which at the
regular time the cat appeared. The eye gleamed. Raymond was
wondering why both eyes did not gleam when the cat seemed to fall
straight down upon the meat. Raymond sat as still as a stone, and
heard the meat crunching between the cat's jaws. The animal was
licking its chops when he advanced--it met him halfway, and while
Raymond rubbed his fur, the cat purred. Sitting down upon a bench,
the cat leaped into his lap, curled up, and settled down for a nap.
Then it was that he found about the cat's neck a small chain with a
tag on it.

When he went into the house the cat followed him, and by the gas
light he read on the tag a Madison Avenue address. Also he observed
that the cat had but one eye, and forthwith he christened him
Cyclops. He wondered why a person who thought enough of the cat to
provide him with a chain and tag should have left him to search for
his victuals in alleys and backyards like an ordinary stray.

Cyclops stuck by Raymond like a twin brother. And every evening when
Raymond came from business he stopped in Richmond market and bought
meat for Cyclops. One day the man in the stall asked him if he were
a family man.

One Sunday morning Raymond strolled across Eutaw Place and up to the
Madison Avenue address. The house was closed for the summer, but the
policeman on the post told him who lived there.

Summer was nearly at an end when Raymond happened to see in the
paper that the people at the Madison Avenue house had returned to
town. Now, Raymond was an honest man--had he been anything else he
would not have been allowed to handle the bank's money, so on
Saturday evening with Cyclops under his arm, he sadly went up
Madison Avenue to return the cat to his lawful owner. Boys on the
street made personal remarks about the man and the cat, and Cyclops'
great eye turned green with wrath as he glared at them.

A coloured woman of the Mammy type answered his ring. She looked and
gasped. Before Raymond could explain she thrust her head into the
hall and shouted in strident tones:

"Come heah, Miss 'Liza! Bress de Lawd ef heah ain't yo' cat!"

In a moment appeared the prettiest girl that Raymond's eyes had ever
rested upon. She had blue eyes and a mass of golden hair. Though
comparatively young, and quite in the eligible class, Raymond was
not a lady's man. With much embarrassment he told the history of the
cat.

While she held Cyclops to her bosom, the girl explained that she had
left him with a friend to keep for her during the summer, and he had
run away. She had given him up for lost.

"Dat cat know whut he doin'," snickered the Mammy, who was standing
back in the hall. "Dat cat kin see further'n you kin ef he ain't got
but one eye."

Raymond went off catless. All the way home he was thinking of a way
by which he might call on the beautiful Miss 'Liza. Sunday afternoon
he went out to the country, to the woods, the flowers, the birds,
and his soul was full of poetry and his mind of thoughts of the
girl.

That evening old Cyclops was back on the fence! His great eye had a
gleam of mischievousness. Down the fence he slid, and straight to
Raymond, who decided that he must take the cat back to his owner
immediately.

While Cyclops prowled about the parlour with tail erect, rubbing
against every article of furniture, Raymond talked to Miss 'Liza.

Every evening Cyclops returned to Raymond, and every evening he as
promptly took him home. Thus time passed from autumn into early
winter.

One evening sitting before the little wood fire in her parlour,
Raymond said to Miss 'Liza: "I don't see but one way to keep our cat
in one place!"

Then Miss 'Liza blushed, and said she didn't see but one way either!

Then he kissed her!

And old Cyclops rubbed against both of them and purred to beat the
band.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

"SOLITAIRE" BILL

By Arthur Felix McEachern


Captain Billy MacDonald was one of those dour Highland Scotsmen;
deep-water men; exhaling an unmistakable atmosphere of the sea. Past
middle age, taciturn; yet there was that indescribable glimmer in
his gray eyes betraying a sense of humor. If indications pointed to
a "spell of weather," Captain Billy habitually retired to his cabin,
leaving orders with the mate to "call me if it breezes up," and when
the first puff of a squall bellied the sails of the _Lizzie
MacDonald_--named after his daughter, and second only to her in his
affections--heeling the bark in to her lee scuppers, Captain Billy
would hastily leave his game of solitaire and bound on deck. One
glance at the heavens sufficed for his decision. With him decision
and action were synonymous; and when he bellowed the order, "All
hands shorten sail," every man-Jack jumped to the ratlines, for
"Solitaire" Bill, as the captain was known to seafaring men from
Glasgow to the Horn, was an Absolute Monarch when at sea.

For twenty years the bark _Lizzie MacDonald_ had freighted hither
and yon about the Atlantic, and was one of the few of her type which
had managed to stay in the running against modern steam tramp
competition. She lay in the roads at Kingston, Jamaica, having
discharged a cargo of dry fish from Boston, and was all ready to
clear for Liverpool with sugar and molasses. War conditions had
boosted freight rates, and the _Lizzie_ had been paying her owners
as never before.

It was 102 degrees in the shade, and at ten o'clock in the forenoon
"Solitaire Bill" sat in his cabin at a rickety table apparently
oblivious to everything except the inevitable solitaire. It was not
generally known that the captain could more clearly map out a course
or think of foreign subjects to better advantage when thus engaged
than at any other time, and when the Yankee mate came aboard in a
bum-boat, he coughed apologetically before disturbing the skipper.

"Well," said Captain Billy, looking up in the act of placing the ten
of diamonds on the queen of spades, "what's the good word?"

"Nothing stirring," answered the mate, an angular, weather-beaten
man with the unmistakable nasal twang of the New-Englander. "The
cook's the only one of the outfit of them with the spunk of a
rabbit. It was as I anticipated. The crew were afraid of the German
submarines, and they jumped north on the steam tramp that left for
New York this morning."

"So there's no chance to get a crew," ruminated the captain. "It is
too bad that we are to be delayed at this time when freight rates
are so high, but I suppose it cannot be helped. We can't sail
without men, that's sure."

"There ain't a sailorman without a ship in Kingston," averred the
mate. "If we were steam we could ship a dozen or so of these
niggers, but they won't do on a square-rigger. They wouldn't know
the main't'gall'n's'l halyards from the bobstay," and the mate went
on deck leaving "Solitaire" Bill pursuing the pastime which was his
hobby.

That afternoon when a slight breeze swept through the city from the
mountain behind, "Solitaire" Bill had the cook put him ashore. He
intended cabling his agents that he would be indefinitely delayed
owing to lack of a crew. Mechanically he walked through the
sun-blistered streets past the squat white houses with negroes
lolling in the doorways, to the Custom House, where he found a
cablegram awaiting him.

As he perused the typewritten sheet a smile flitted over his
care-worn features. It was as he had hoped, although he had made it
a point to never meddle in his daughter's affairs. He had scrimped
to give her the education which neither he nor her dead mother had
enjoyed, and though he had seen her never more than twice yearly, he
had known of her reciprocation to the love of Douglas MacGillis, and
had approved of her choice. He reread the cablegram: "Douglas and I
to be married March 30th. He leaves for the front early April.
Expect you Liverpool before 30th."

Since the death of his wife, fifteen years before, his daughter,
Lizzie, had been the constant object of "Solitaire" Bill's care and
affection. She was to marry a Scotsman; a gentleman; and one who was
going to the firing line to "do his bit" for King and country. Many
a time since the outbreak of war had Captain Billy wished that he
were younger. Gladly would he have donned the khaki to fight for
Britain in the trenches. His was the indomitable spirit of the
Highlander. But, though vigorous and keen of mind as are the
majority of men of half his years, he was beyond the active service
age limit, so he devoted himself to the equally patriotic task of
bringing supplies to Britain to keep her wheels of commerce humming.

"If I had a crew," he muttered, as he shuffled the dog-eared deck of
cards in the solitude of his cabin while awaiting the evening meal,
"I could make Liverpool, weather permitting, in time for the
wedding. If I could do that--well, that's all I ask----"

Suddenly Captain "Solitaire" Bill burst into a paroxysm of laughter.
"By the Powers, I'll try it," he cried, as he bounded up the
companionway with boyish light-heartedness.

"Supper's ready," called the cook from the door of the galley.

"Get supper ready for a full crew," ordered the skipper, "and will
you come ashore with me, Mr. Smith?" he said to the mate. "I want
you to round up a crew of those niggers, while I go to the Custom
House and clear. We sail as soon as you get them."

The mate looked incredulously. "The niggers can't box the compass
even, and----"

"Never mind about that," commanded "Solitaire" Bill, "you get them
aboard and leave the rest to me."

                   *       *       *       *       *

"Well, I might as well explain now; it's too good to keep a moment
longer," chuckled "Solitaire" Bill, as he ordered the driver of the
taxi waiting in front of the church to drive to the Liverpool House.

"We are assuredly anxious to learn what you and Mr. Smith are
laughing about," chorused Lieut. Douglas MacGillis and his wife in
unison. The mate, Mr. Smith, was obviously uncomfortable in what he
termed his "moonlight clothes," nevertheless he laughed immoderately
as he indulged in retrospection.

"I've always been a fiend for solitaire," said Captain Billy, "and
after getting your cable I was in a quandary, and sought solace in a
game with myself. I wanted to get to this wedding more than anything
else, but I couldn't get here without a crew to work the ship, and
sailormen were about as plentiful as hen's teeth in Kingston. But
the cards gave me an inspiration. I shipped a crew of niggers who
did not know one rope from another on a square-rigged ship--but
they all knew how to play cards. I fastened a playing card to each
of the principal ropes and sails, and those niggers were like cats
aloft.

"When I shouted, 'Clew up your ace of spades,' they were after that
mizzen-royal in a jiffy. Mr. Smith, the cook, and myself took turns
at the wheel. 'Double reef your deuce of diamonds,' and they made
snug the fores'l to a nicety. All's well that ends well. I never had
a smarter lot of sailors. I know the men all called me 'Solitaire'
Bill behind my back, but henceforth and hereafter, every fo'c'sle
hand and the cook calls me 'Solitaire,' or they don't sign articles
on the trimmest brig that sails the Atlantic."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

JUST A PAL

By Elsie D. Knisely


Jim Doyle--sent to Sing Sing last year--is innocent. I done the
job he was sent up for. I was broke and out of work and Mary, my
wife, had consumption and needed food and warm clothes and medicine.
I held up a guy with more than he needed that didn't come by it any
honester than I done when I cracked him over the head and took it
out of his belt. Then Jim cooked up a scheme to own he done it and
take my medicine as long as Mary lived, so she wouldn't know and
so's I could be with her and look after her. She died to-day.
There's one hundred and fifty dollars under the mattress along with
the proof that I'm the guilty guy. Bury my wife decent and give the
rest to Jim to get on his feet after you turn him loose. Get a
kind-hearted parson to say a prayer over me and then plant me in
Potter's Field. I'm going the gas route. Jim's no kin of mine--just
a pal. He allowed no one would care a darn if he was in the pen or
not. He loved a girl once, but she turned out bad and spoiled Jim's
life. Tell him "God bless him."

P. S.--I'm sorry I killed that guy, but I just had to have money
for Mary. Mebbe I can square it with him where I'm going.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

WHEN "KULTUR" WAS BEATEN

By Lieutenant X


Knee deep in the mud, the French "Alpines," the "Blue Devils," as
the Germans called them, were watching the shelling of the enemy's
positions. Huge columns of black smoke crowned the white line of
trenches below the thicket of spruce, and at each of the terrific
explosions chunks of dirt, sand-bags, and armour plates flew high in
the air.

In the expectation of the rush the "Blue Devils" stood leaning on
the rifles, some of them laughing and joking, while others, grave
and stern, read once more the last letters of the beloved ones.

Corporal Dupin sat down, looking at the photograph of the wife and
baby. When hell broke loose Dupin was quietly living in Canada, and
he had come as a man of honour to join the colours, leaving his
little family on the safer side of the ocean. The morning mail had
just brought him news that wife and baby had sailed on the
_Lusitania_, to be nearer to him.... How his heart beat hard!

... Surely he would come safe out of this struggle, though he would
bear himself as gallantly as usual, and perhaps be fortunate enough
to get twenty-four hours' leave and meet the wife and baby
somewhere, perhaps in Belfast or in Nancy. He could already imagine
that meeting. He was happy. How heartily he went to his duty
to-day!...

He caught the voice of the lieutenant.

"Here, boys!" was the brief command. "You've always done your duty.
To-day you have to do it doubly, for Germany has added a new crime
to the list. One of her submarines has sunk the _Lusitania_. There
are innocent victims to avenge."

The _Lusitania_! Greet her! Eagerly Dupin tore the paper from the
officer's hands. He read and reread the list of rescued. Two seconds
later there was no more room for doubt, and he knew that all he
loved in the world had gone down.

Oh, kill! Kill the murderers and avenge!... Kill and torture!...
How long would the shelling last? When would the signal of the storm
come?...

Ah! the welcome starlike rocket! The French guns lengthened their
shots, shelled the upper line of trenches.... A loud shout and a
mad rush.... The "Blue Devils" were in action.

Ta, ta, ta, ta.... The German machine-guns. Sh! Cirr! Shrapnel
burst with a quick flame and little yellow clouds.... Dead men
fell.

But the remainder kept on running and bouncing until they reached
the German works. The "75s" shells had made a mess of the
entanglements, and the main trench was a ruin, spotted with
corpses.... Bullets whistled, grenades exploded, injured men
shrieked.

From a black aperture a bullet missed Corporal Dupin as he passed,
bayonet forward, after a flying man. He gave that prey off, threw a
bomb in the den, and as soon as it had exploded he rushed in.

Covered with blood, a German officer lay down. He menaced Dupin with
his empty pistol, when, realizing that everything was over for him,
he threw the gun, with a wild laugh, and defiantly and haughtily
looked at Dupin. The cold, blue eyes of the Teuton did not mistake
Dupin's sentiment. To the corporal's dark, glancing eyes they
returned hatred for hatred. Dupin thought that the submarine's
commander must have had the same likeness. Yes, this man would pay
dearly for the cold-blooded murderer's debt. The hour of vengeance
had come.

Dupin did not strike yet. He found sweet to contemplate the agony of
his enemy.... He thought of torturing the man.... The fellow must
suffer....

From loss of blood the German officer suddenly fainted, and Dupin
found himself kneeling over the enemy, bathing his wounds, stopping
his blood, nursing him as a brother....

Again shrapnel burst. The German artillery was already shelling the
conquered trenches. Ready for a new fight, Dupin, before he left the
wounded officer, wrapped him in a blanket, left him his own water
bottle. A last time he looked at him with a sad but proud smile and
said:

"No, we are not the same race. We cannot do the same things."

And they were his last words, for a bullet went through his heart,
and, still smiling, but this time very sweetly, Dupin went to meet
the beloved ones.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The above story was accompanied by the following letter:

Dear Mr. Editor:

Just fancy the shelling of the trenches and a little French officer
trying to keep up the morale (excellent, I should say) of his men,
to teach them the contempt of death, or, rather, to show that he is
not in that respect inferior to them.

Fancy that same officer reading your Vive La France Number of _Life_
and translating it to his men, then looking at your contest
proposition, and finding very funny to fill his fountain pen and
write on the first scraps of paper he can procure a very short
story.

The author has not the boldness to say that his story is very
interesting. He knows, too, that as a Frenchman he does not speak
nor write very correct English; but he has sent it to you rather
because of the originality of the thing and to show you that the
French soldiers appreciate the friendship of America.

At any rate, it is a genuine story of the trenches and a souvenir of
the war.

                                        Yours most sincerely,
                                                        M. Constance.

From the Trenches,
June 15, 1915.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

PRESUMPTION OF INNOCENCE

By Lyman Bryson


Into the judge's empty office came the attorney for the defense,
followed by his client. The attorney for the defense wore
belligerent hair and spectacles. His manner was more upright and
simple than his speech, which was full of guile. His client was
heavy, of the ugly fatness often characteristic of ward politicians,
porcine, grossly genial. They had come to escape the gaping crowd.
The attorney was recovering from his four-hour address to the jury.
Sweat stood under his upstanding hair, and he wiped his wrists with
a limp handkerchief.

"Honest John" looked at his lawyer with dull admiration. "Tom, that
was a great speech." Then, as if this might be too humble praise for
a politician to give his hireling, he added: "Best you ever made."

Tom Jenison made no reply. When he was tired there was a quality of
frankness in his eyes as if cleverness had been assumed for business
purposes.

"How long will they be out?" asked Honest John, thinking of the
twelve who were debating in a nearby room on sending him to the
penitentiary for stealing public money.

"How should I know?" Jenison spoke petulantly.

The politician sat quietly, his fat hands folded above the top of
his trousers on his negligee shirt. He was thinking that generous
public sentiment might avail little with the twelve men now busy
with his destiny. He sighed tremulously.

"You're not worried, are you?"

"No--guess not. I'm all right."

The composure of the politician began to desert him. He flushed and
sighed and slapped at flies. His jaw relaxed and slid down. His
hands trembled.

"Tom," he began, "what are the chances?"

"I don't know. Scared?"

"I'm a little nervous. That's all."

Jenison had loved the fight for its own sake. Spectators supposed he
defended Honest John only to earn his huge hire, but that had not
been all his motive. It had not occurred to him before that his
client was not as courageous as himself. He supported the
"presumption of innocence" and pitted himself against machinery of
prosecutor and court. But if his client was a coward his fight
seemed suddenly unworthy.

Honest John's puffy eyes filled with tears. "You've been a good
friend to me, Tom."

"Oh, cut that."

"Yes, you have. I appreciate it."

Jenison, looking at him, wondered that he could ever have thought
this man a friend or worth an effort to save. The wretched face
sickened him.

"You're the only man who knows how I feel." His client was trying to
explain his collapse. "I can't face guilty. I know you'd keep up the
fight as long as I kept up the money"--his attorney winced--"but I
couldn't stand another trial. I'm ready for 'em."

"Ready? How?"

"I've got it here." Honest John tapped his chest, then drew out a
narrow pill box.

Contempt came back into Jenison's eyes. "What are you telling me
for? Go tell some one who'd care."

"I don't know what you mean, Tom."

"Oh, yes, you do. You'd never take that stuff. You haven't the
nerve. You're stalling for sympathy."

The politician turned to an ice-water stand and dropped two tablets
into a glass of water. He said with tremulous bravado, "All
right--here goes."

"You might as well drink it," answered the attorney. "God knows
you're guilty. You'll pay for it some time."

The glass went halfway to Honest John's lips and then back to the
stand. "I think--I'll wait."

"I thought so. You'll wait until you're behind bars, and then you'll
wish you'd taken your medicine." Jenison spoke as if it had been his
professional advice to his client to drink the potion. "It takes a
man to quit when the game's up. I suppose in a way I'm as dishonest
as you, but there's a chance for me to clean up, because I'm not
afraid. If I thought the name helping you has given me would stick,
I'd be glad to take your poison."

They heard a shuffling of feet in the courtroom.

"There's an officer announcing that they've reached a verdict," said
Jenison. He looked his client in the eyes and added, "I hope it's
guilty!"

"Why--I don't--what's the matter? I'll pay you."

Jenison blazed. "Yes, you'll pay! It's all money to you! Do you
think if I'd known you for a coward I'd have made this fight? I hate
myself now to think I ever took your money!"

His client looked at him in stupid silence.

"And let me tell you something else. You're the last thief I'll work
for. I'm done with keeping your kind out of jail." Huge self-disgust
overwhelmed him. "I'll never take another cent of crook's money as
long as I live, so help me God!"

They heard the slow procession of the jury filing into the court to
deliver the speedy verdict. Jenison felt his soul crawling with
shame. A convulsive sigh made him turn. Honest John had raised the
glass to his lips. His eyes bulged with fear, and he spilled half
the liquid on his shirt. Before Jenison could reach him he had
swallowed it. Horror held the attorney for an instant, then he burst
through the doorway into the courtroom.

A lank man in the jury box smiled as he entered. That meant "Not
guilty." Without noticing the attorney's ghastly excitement the
judge said, "If the respondent will return the verdict will be
delivered."

Jenison controlled himself and stood straight.

"If your honour please," he said, "if your honour please"--he could
only point through the doorway at Honest John's body straddled in a
chair--"the respondent has delivered his own verdict."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

A MEXICAN VIVANDI√àRE

By H. C. Washburn


Night had fallen on the third day at Vera Cruz, and from navy
headquarters the commanding officer, his orders snapping like
wireless, was directing the clean-up of snipers.

"Lawrence," he said, "you'll find six machine-guns--buried in
boxes--backyard of No. 17 Avenida Cortes."

As Lieutenant Lawrence left headquarters with his squad Ensign
McHenry came in and reported.

"McHenry, you're next. This is Gonzales, who knows where you can
round up Fernando Diaz. Get Diaz to-night."

McHenry started at once with Gonzales, listening to his flood of
directions. The Mexican smiled in spite of himself at the American's
burst of speed, but kept up with him easily. They turned corners
into filthy by-streets leading to the market space.

At the entrance to a dark alley Gonzales stepped aside.

"After you, _se√±or_."

When the white uniform entered the shadow of an awning "Gonzales"
whipped out his revolver and fired pointblank into the officer's
back. Flinging away his weapon, he ran to No. 17 Calle de Zamora and
whistled.

"Pava, Pava, _ven aca_! I have shot an American officer! The marines
are hunting for our machine-guns. I said 'Avenida Cortes,' but that
dog, Vicente, who betrayed us, will lead the Americans here."

"Let them come," said La Pava. She bolted the door as he stepped in.
"What name did you give?"

"Emilio Gonzales."

"Listen, Fernando. Don't stay a minute. Let me think. What if I cut
your head, a very little, so?" He winced under the knife, and she
kissed him. "See, it bleeds enough on this bandage, which will hide
your face. Quick! To the Military Hospital! Sleep there, safe among
hundreds of our wounded. Go!"

Meanwhile Vicente, the informer, had followed Diaz. Hearing the shot
and finding McHenry wounded, he scurried to headquarters. The news
went to Lawrence, who took his squad "on the double" to Calle de
Zamora. Rifle butts shattered the door, and Lawrence, automatic in
hand, led the men in with fixed bayonets.

La Pava, the beautiful _Azteca_, stood facing the bright steel, a
thin wisp of smoke drifting from her cigarette.

"_Buenas noches, se√±or?_"

"You have six machine-guns. Where are they?" Lawrence looked at his
wrist watch. "I give you three minutes to answer."

La Pava had faced death before. A crack shot, riding in advance of
Villa's army, she had drawn the enemy's fire, had stolen plans,
food, money. She had sold herself to the opposing general and
learned his strategy. She was a scout, a spy, a harlot--a patriot.
Now she gazed innocently, admiringly, at the young lieutenant. His
men, fascinated, unconsciously lowered their rifles.

"_Se√±or_," she pleaded, "you will do me a great wrong if you shoot,
for I have no guns. Some one has lied. Search and you will see."

The marines turned the place inside out.

When Lawrence asked La Pava to take him into the courtyard she
showed no hesitation, and his flashlight told him the ground had not
been disturbed.

Stooping over, he caught the gleam of a knife, and in the same
breath twisted it out of her fingers.

"You are quick, _se√±or_. But some day I will get you--you who would
not take my word."

The sergeant returned and reported, "I can find nothing, sir." Then,
seeing the knife, he added, "Put her in irons, sir?"

Lawrence knew her breed; she would be flattered by handcuffs and
would consider him a weakling.

"No, sergeant. The lady will walk with me."

Through the streets to prison, wafting a powerful scent of perfumed
powder, she walked at Lawrence's side, using her eyes with that
dazzling effect known only to women of the tropics.

He would confront her with Vicente, Lawrence thought, but as the
battlements of Ulloa Castle came in sight, the "Place of Executions"
suggested another idea.

"Halt!" He formed a firing platoon and blind-folded the prisoner.
Thinking of Vicente's story of the guns, he asserted, as if he meant
it, "With my own eyes, during the fighting, I saw your gun boxes
taken from the arsenal. Where are they now?"

La Pava gave no answer. She folded her arms and held her head
proudly.

"Ready!... Aim!..." Lawrence raised the muzzle of the sergeant's
gun; the men, following this lead, aimed high.

"_Squad_----"

It was too much even for La Pava. She dropped to her knees.

"Wait, _se√±or_! I will tell all, on one so small condition--that
you spare the life of Emilio Gonzales. If not--you can kill me. On
your word as an officer save him, and let me see him, and by the
Blessed Virgin I will tell you the truth."

"Where is this man?"

"He is in the Military Hospital."

"I will do all I can for Gonzales--I'll take you to him. Now, where
are the guns?"

"They are buried in the patio--in _front_ of my house."

Even then she smiled.

"Remember," he warned, removing the blindfold, "if you have lied,
you will be shot. Sergeant, look for them; report to me at the
hospital."

As the men marched off Vicente, the ubiquitous, who had trailed La
Pava, emerged from the shadow of a doorway. La Pava, whom nothing
seemed to startle, sneered at him. Lawrence gripped his automatic,
recognized Vicente, and thereupon wiped the sweat from his forehead.

"_Se√±or_," whined the beast, "her lover's name is not Gonzales, but
Diaz, the traitor." La Pava glared at him murderously. "It was
Diaz," Vicente added with unction, "who shot the officer in the
back."

"You gave me your word----" she began, turning to Lawrence.

"To save 'Emilio Gonzales,'" he reminded her.

"True, my captain, alas!" Her black lashes drooped over a message of
love. "But you will set me free?"

"When I see the guns."

Furious, she sprang at Vicente, who stepped back. Haughtily she
faced him and spoke shrilly in an Indian dialect. Despite this, her
manner reassured Lawrence. Apparently, she was in a mad rage. In
reality, she was telling Vicente to take the underground passage
from Ulloa Castle to the hospital and warn Diaz. "Do this," she was
saying, "and I'll see no more of Fernando. You will have me--you
alone--for life."

She ended with what seemed a torrent of invective. Vicente played
his part--with his heart afire, he seemed to Lawrence merely
scornful.

"_Hasta la vista, se√±or._" Vicente, triumphant, sauntered toward the
castle.

"Ugh!" said La Pava, with deep loathing. "He is but carrion. Because
I do not give myself to him he would destroy his rival." She
shrugged her shoulders. "Will you take me to the hospital?"

"We are going there now."

"I am very tired," she sighed, leaning against him. "I grow faint."

They walked slowly, Lawrence giving her the support of his arm.
Finally, nearing the hospital, they turned into a plaza where the
street lamp had been shot down.

In a flash La Pava swung under his arm, drew his pistol, wrenched
herself away, and covered him.

"Ah! You are not so quick this time. Don't move! You Americans say
you will shoot, and you do not shoot." She fired twice, rapidly,
over his head. "But I have still four shots, and I am a _Mexican_."

A mounted figure, leading a second horse, whirled up and reined in
with a jolt. Fernando Diaz showed his white teeth, smiling
cordially, as he took the automatic from his mistress and levelled
it at Lawrence.

"What say you, _querida_? I finished Vicente. Shall I do away with
this _gringo_?"

La Pava mounted as Diaz spoke.

"Let him live," she said, "for he is a brave man."

"_Adios, se√±or!_ The machine-guns are safe through the lines. Take
my advice, _teniente_, and never trust a woman----"

Diaz's spurs dug deep, and sparks flew from the cobbles.

"--unless," La Pava laughed back through the darkness, "unless,
_se√±or_, she loves you."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

MOTHER'S BIRTHDAY PRESENT

By Carrie Seever


Lizzie was sitting in a corner counting her money. "Thirty-five,
Kitty, thirty-five cents." When Lizzie's mother was away, washing,
she made her kitten her confidant. "Talk about mamma'll be s'prised
when she gits this birthday present, My-i! Third one I'm givin'
her--when I was five I gave her peanut candy; only she didn't come
home till the peanuts were picked out. Second time I gave her a blue
hair ribbon; blue looks nice on my red hair. Now I'm seven--twice
seven an' I won't have these freckles an' long skirt'll cover my
skinny legs, an'," she continued, getting up and trying to stand
dignifiedly, "my name'll be Elizabeth. Then I'll give mamma a'
album! S'long, Kitty."

Out of the door she skipped, and down the alley toward the market.
She forgot about the market when she reached the corner of the
alley, for there stood a cart loaded with clocks, vases, jewellery,
everything to satisfy one's birthday wish--even an album.

Lizzie joined the crowd that had gathered to hear what the owner of
these articles had to say. She listened a moment and then danced for
joy--the man, who seemed to be all stomach and voice, was actually
inviting them to take a twenty-five dollar watch for five cents.

"Now, ladies and gentlemen," said the stomach and voice, "any
article on this counter for five cents--every piece o' chewing gum
wins something. You want to try, mister? Now, folks, watch him read
the name o' one o' these handsome presents from the slip o' paper
'round that gum. Gold-handled umbreller? Here you are. Who's goner
win the other one? Nothin' faky. That's right, try your luck"--to a
man who was edging to the front. "Diamond stud? You're lucky--only
a few more diamond studs left. Next! Any one else? Don't stop 'cause
you won a' umbreller. That's it. Watcher got now? Gold bracelet?
Five rubies and four emeralds in it, ladies and gents."

Lizzie began to realize that she wasn't dreaming--three prizes gone
already!

"Lady, don't you want this linen tablecloth? Fifteen dollars retail.
Or this album that plays music when you're lookin' at your loved
ones?"

Lizzie gasped--there was only one album. "I want to win the album,"
she shouted.

"Come right up with your nickel. Here's a gal knows a good thing
even if she did swallow two teeth."

Had this remark been made about Lizzie's teeth at another time she
would have fired a red-headed retort, but now she thought of only
the album.

She exchanged her five pennies for the gum, and with trembling
fingers unrolled the tissue paper and let the stomach and voice read
the name from the slip of paper--"Lead pencil," was announced.

Poor Lizzie's heart sank, and the stomach and voice was telling the
crowd that there were a few pencils in the lot, and showed them a
box containing five pencils.

At this Lizzie cheered up--she decided that if no one else won
those pencils and she was unlucky five more times she would still
have five cents left with which to win the album.

She won five more pencils, had given a last look at the last five
pennies, unrolled the slip of paper and given it to her nearest
neighbour to read--"lead pencil," was read.

"Since they ain't no more pencils I'll take the album," announced
Lizzie triumphantly.

"Got more, sissy," said the stomach and voice, taking a few from his
pocket and placing them in the box, handing one to Lizzie.

The crowd jeered and left. Lizzie was too dazed to go, and, sitting
on a soapbox in the alley, stared at the album. She heard the shrill
whistle the stomach and voice gave, and a few minutes later saw the
winners appear, returning the articles they had won. She wondered
why they did this, and, as a new crowd was coming, drew closer to
the cart.

She listened again to the same harangue and saw the umbrella winner
take another chance. She gave a start when he thundered
"umbrella"--she saw through the performance, and her cheeks glowed
with indignation.

"Ladies and gentlemen," she screamed, "this is a fake
business--that man won a' umbreller an' brought it back, an' so did
the other man." By this time she was out of reach of the stomach and
voice, who threatened to knock two more teeth down her throat. But
Lizzie's voice was not out of reach, and the crowd could hear her
yelling, "Everybody else wins penny lead pencils." The crowd
laughed and left.

Lizzie waited for the next crowd, and, coming from her hiding-place,
gave them the same information.

After the crowd had gone the stomach and voice caught Lizzie, who,
while trying to free herself from his grasp, bumped her lip, and the
blood oozed from her tender gum.

"P'liceman, p'liceman, help!" she screamed.

Seeing the people in the neighbourhood coming to Lizzie's rescue,
the stomach and voice promised to return her money if she would keep
quiet.

"I'm goner tell 'em all you knocked my teeth out 'less you gi' me
the album," snapped Lizzie.

"A' right," meekly answered the stomach and voice, who had been
collared by this time, but was released when the men received
Lizzie's invitation to come up the alley and see her album.

"Good-bye, mister--thanks awfully for the gum an' pencils, too,"
and away she ran, the album in her arms.

When in the room, she locked the door for fear the album would be
taken away.

"Kitty, look! A' album, and me on'y seven. They'll just have to call
me Elizabeth, freckles an' legs an' all."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

RED BLOOD OR BLUE

By E. Montgomery


Dear Lou:

"This is the last letter I shall write to you, for to-morrow I begin
the final stage of my transition. At four o'clock I shall become a
lady. To be sure, you and I will know that I am only an imitation,
but with an eighteen-carat setting every one else will take me for
the real thing.

"Lou, I've been wondering how many generations it will take to make
a real lady. My daughter perhaps will be one, and if not, then her
daughter; but I will always be an imitation.

"My grandmother did day's work to give my mother a schooling, and my
mother helped in the shop so that I could have dancing lessons
before I was six. I can't disappoint them, and I can't shirk my duty
toward my children yet to be born. They stretch out their hands to
me, asking I know not what, so to-morrow I give them a gentleman
father. Yes, Lou, he is a little man, not much higher than my
shoulder, and he is fat and jaded and old; but he has a name which
can unlock the holy of holies in New York, and I may enter it with
him, for I shall be his wife.

"They tell me I should be proud of my conquest, and I am, for it is
not my gold alone which has ensnared him, but myself; and I am
beautiful, Lou. It is three years since you have seen me, and I grow
lovelier every day.

"I am tall, divinely tall; slender of hip and full of bosom, with
all the promise of ripening womanhood. And to-morrow my maidenhood
is to be sacrificed on the altar of holy (?) matrimony, and the
metamorphosis will be complete. I shall be a lady.

"Oh, Lou, why wasn't your father a gentleman? He might have been a
rake, a rou√©, a gambler--anything, so long as he was a gentleman.
But he is only my father's boyhood friend, and still a village
carpenter.

"You had to work your way through college, and my father rolled me
through on the almighty dollar.

"And yet I think for all my education there is something radically
wrong with me. I am that hybrid thing, 'a lady in the making, an
imitation lady.' And what troubles me most is the thought that
perhaps I am only an imitation woman also.

"My ancestors had red blood in their veins, and my descendants'
blood will be blue; but in my veins there is nothing but water.

"Listen, Lou; to-day I shut myself in my room and scrubbed the floor
of my private bath. Down on my knees I went with soap and brush and
scrubbed for all there was in me, and when I finished my back ached
horribly, and still the floor was far from clean; and I the
granddaughter of a woman who has scrubbed acres of floors, and could
do it yet, though she is almost eighty.

"Oh, Lou, Lou, I wish I had dared to run away with you that last
night three years ago. Do you remember--the moon, the gate that
creaked, the smell of the dew on the grass, the chirping of the
insects--a heavenly midsummer night, made for love--as we were
made for love?

"I had to stand on tiptoe when you kissed me. And your dear eyes
were filled with anguish when we parted. You told me I would find
you there when I needed you. And, oh! I need you now!

"How many generations of our children's children would it take to
make a lady, Lou?

"Everything is wrong with the world to-night. My head hurts and I
can't think.

"See! Here on my desk I have a time-table, a brave blue time-table,
which tells me that I am only four short hours away from you, and
that I still have ample time to pack and catch the midnight train.

"If I join you, you need never see this letter--and if I do not,
then you _must_ not see it. I will burn it.

"This is my hour, my future is in my own hands. It is all a question
of courage: my ancestors had it, my descendants will have it; but
have I?

                                                "Your unhappy
                                                          "Ruth."

The wedding of a steel king's daughter into one of New York's oldest
families is worth a column on the front page of any paper. Pictures
of the happy couple stared out of every edition.

The weary housemaid spread one on the floor as she cleaned the
disordered room her young mistress had left behind.

She gathered a little pile of ashes from the hearth and dumped them
on the paper. They completely covered the smiling faces of the bride
and groom--not that it mattered, for the ashes were cold.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE IMPULSIVE MR. JIGGS

By Roger Brown


Marathon Jiggs approached the day-clerk.

"Is Mr. George Jones here?" he inquired.

"He is registered here, but he's out at present," replied the clerk.
"Would you like to leave any message?"

"Thank you, I believe I will," said Jiggs, reaching for the hotel
stationery. He hastily scribbled a note, left it, sans envelope, at
the desk, and took his departure.

About an hour later a large, overbearing woman of the
superdreadnought type steamed majestically to the desk, a small and
timid-looking individual in her wake. After taking the mail that had
accumulated in the box she stalked imposingly to the elevator,
accompanied by the timid person, who, by his conduct, appeared to be
her husband.

When the couple got to their room Mrs. George Jones sat down and
scanned the family mail. As she read, the colour flooded her
expansive face like a sunset, then receded, leaving her chalky white
with rage. Her unfortunate spouse cowered in a corner.

Rising to her feet in all the majesty of her five-feet-eleven, she
thrust a note into Jones's hand. "Read that!" she commanded
hoarsely.

With amazement and fear alternately expressed in his weak
countenance, Jones read the following:

"Dear George:

Why don't you let me know when you get to town? I expected you
yesterday. Call me up, the same old number, and we will have a time
to-night.

                                                "Yours as ever,
                                                            "Mary."

"You rou√©!" stormed Mrs. Jones. "I shall institute divorce
proceedings immediately. To think _you_ have been leading a double
life! You may expect a visit from my lawyer!" The door slammed
behind her as Jones sank dazedly into a chair.

As she flounced out the door of the hotel Marathon Jiggs again came
to the desk. "Did Mr. Jones get my note?" he asked.

"No, but his wife did," replied the clerk.

"His wife?" came in gasp from Jiggs. "_His wife?_ Who--let me see
the register, please."

He hastily scanned the list of guests until he came to Jones's name.
"'Mr. George K. Jones and wife, Chicago, Illinois,'" he read
incredulously, "and I thought it was George H. Jones of Pittsburg.
What if his wife--I must see him immediately," and he hurried to
the elevator.

As Jones sat in his room, bewildered at the events of the past hour,
a knock startled him out of his reverie. "Come in!" he called
uneasily, expecting his wife's lawyer to appear. The sight of the
homely but benevolent face of Jiggs was a distinct relief.

"My name is Jiggs," stated the caller--"Marathon Jiggs, nicknamed
'Mary' at the university. I left a note for a friend of mine whom I
thought was staying here, named George H. Jones. I understand that
your wife got it by mistake. It is quite possible that she read it
and misunderstand the matter; therefore I have come to clear it up,
if such is the case, and exonerate you."

Jones drew up a chair. "Sit down," he said, "and we will talk this
over. My wife has just gone out to see a lawyer about a divorce. You
have already done me a favour; now what," taking out a checkbook,
"will you take to keep quiet about the facts?"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

TOMASO AND ME

By Graham Clark


I can't talk good American way. In the carpet factory where I worked
the Polacks, Sheenies, and Wops talked any old way, and I learnt to
say American like them. But maybe I talk good enough to tell about
Tomaso and me.

Tomaso comed from Italy. For that the peoples in this country calls
him a Wop. I comed from Albania. Never did my father lets a Wop come
to our house, for most Albanese hates the Wops. But first day I seen
Tomaso I stopped hating _all_ the Wops. He comed to work in the
factory, setting patterns like me. His eyes looked big and soft like
our little dog's. His voice was like the big strings on my father's
harp when he pulls his fingers over them gentle like. He was like
American fellas--tall with a nice head. His neck, where the hair
comed down black and shiny, was like a young girl's.

When I first seen Tomaso he was nineteen. But some ways I was an old
woman, for the hunger that pulls your waist in tight and the cold
that makes your blood black comed many times too many times to my
bunch, for in our house was many kids, and my father couldn't makes
enough money to buy plenty of food. So I went to work in the factory
before the law lets me. The superintendent fixed it so I got the job
all right. I said I was older than I was.

Always I thought about the bunch at home, till I seen Tomaso. Then I
thought in my mind of him--and me. One day, soon after Tomaso comed
to the factory, my mother said to me: "Maria, you're big enough to
marry. In the old country you would have a husband. Your father will
go to Brooklyn and tell your aunts to gets you a husband. In
Brooklyn there's plenty of Albanese. You will marry one of your own
peoples."

I said no word back. In my mind I was thinking I would marry only
Tomaso. On Sunday my father went to Brooklyn to speak with my aunt
for a husband for me. We lived in New Jersey, in an old shack like a
pig's. Dirt and bad smell was everywhere. Always I wanted to live
American way; but how could we gets clean with nanny-goats and
chickens coming in the house like peoples?

Two weeks, and my aunt comed from Brooklyn with a guy. He looked
like a rat. His hair was thin like lace, and you could see the
yellow skin in spots, greasy like. He was just as high as my little
brother Stephano, fourteen. And he was twenty-five!

"Here's Dimiter," my aunt said. "He's a nice fella. He drives a team
for Brooklyn and gets good money. His father has a house in the old
country. Each year he'll send Dimiter wine and oil."

My father gived Dimiter his hand to kiss. My mother said he was
better than us, Albanese way. I said no word. At dinner my father
said: "Maria, you are engage to Dimiter. He will be my son. I'll
give him one hundred dollars and kill the old nanny-goat for the
wedding. All the Albanese and some of the Wops and Polacks will come
and make presents."

In my mind I was asking, "Where will you gets the hundred dollars?"
I looked at Dimiter. He showed all crooked teeth when he laughed. In
my mind I was thinking I would likes to spit in his face. To my
mother I said: "I am too young to marry. Wait a year."

"A year!" My mother hollered and hit the table. "A fella don't wants
a girl if she's old. You'll marry Dimiter now."

Something inside me got hard like a stone. I hated my mother. The
whole bunch. Why should I marry the rat? Why shouldn't I pick my own
fella, American way?

"When will I come to marry?" Dimiter asked my father.

My father said: "Sunday we'll speak to the priest. Next Sunday will
be the wedding."

Up I jumps. Two weeks and me married to the rat? What about Tomaso?
Two days ago he had walked with me from the factory. At the bridge
we stopped. "You're my little sweetheart," Tomaso said, soft like.
His eyes was shiny like dew. I got red as a pepper and runned away.
But in my mind I was thinking I loved Tomaso. Sure, I would not tell
my father, for the Albanese hates the Wops.

So I remembered Tomaso's eyes and voice. And I said: "I won't marry
this guy." My father's shoulders went up high. My mother got mad
like diavolo. The rat was yellow like sick. My aunt said: "Maria's
just a young girl. Give her time for thinking over."

"No thinking over," my father hollered. "I give Dimiter my daughter.
Two weeks will be the wedding."

My mother laughed with her tongue out, Albanese way. More than ever
she looked like our old nanny-goat. I stood higher than her and said
to her face: "If I am a little girl I will stay home with the other
kids and my father to feed me. If I am a woman and works for the
bunch I will find my own fella, American way."

My father made to hit me, but I runned upstairs and shut the door
hard. My aunt and the rat went away. All day I put nothing in my
mouth. I said no word.

Next day I set the patterns wrong. The boss sweared. In the evening
Tomaso walked with me. "Why are you to cry?" he asked. His voice was
like all his peoples was dead. I told him about the rat. He put his
head high and his eyes looked like two pieces of fire in the dark.
His lips got tight over his teeth and I seen him make hard fists.

Then he comed close. His arm was by my arm. In my mind I said I
would like to put my head on his shoulder and my lips to his lips.
But Albanese girls don't do that way till they're married.

"I hates Albanese! I hates Italians! I hates the old country!" said
Tomaso. His voice was like a knife. "They makes their girls to marry
any old guy. I likes American way--a fella and a girl to love and
then marry, and other peoples stay out of it."

"I will do American way," I said. Tomaso's hair rubbed my cheek; I
got warm and happy. Only Tomaso and me. Just us in the world.

"And _I_ will do American way," Tomaso said in my hair. It was dark,
but I seen his face, warm like the sunshine. Before I knowed,
Tomaso's lips held mine tight. Sure, it was wicked. Don't the priest
tell you so? But how could I help it? Tomaso was so strong--and we
loved together.

"We'll get married American way," Tomaso said, soft like. His face
was like fur on my face. "I have two hundred dollars from my last
job. My father is not a poor man, and I am his only child. Shall it
be that way, my sweetheart?"

Sure, there was a big scrap at our shack next day when I runned off
with a Wop. But Tomaso and me should worry! We got married American
way. I stopped the factory and made my house nice. One month
married, and comed my father and mother to see me.

"Ta, like Americanos!" my mother said. But she didn't laugh with her
tongue out. She wanted to be good. I was her first child. My father
gived his hand for me to kiss. "Bless my daughter," he said. Then he
gived his hand for Tomaso to kiss, and made tears to run out of his
eyes. Then he borrowed ten dollars from Tomaso and everything got
all right.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THICKER THAN WATER

By Ralph Henry Barbour and George Randolph Osborne


Doctor Burroughs, summoned from the operating room, greeted his
friend from the doorway: "Sorry, Harry, but you'll have to go on
without me. I've got a case on the table that I can't leave. Make my
excuses, will you?"

"There's still an hour," replied the visitor. "I'm early and can
wait."

"Then come in with me." Markham followed to the operating room,
white-walled, immaculate, odorous of stale ether and antiseptics. On
the table lay the sheeted form of a young girl. Only the upper
portion of the body was visible, and about the neck wet, red-stained
bandages were bound. "A queer case," said the surgeon. "Brought here
from a sweat-shop two hours ago. A stove-pipe fell and gashed an
artery in her neck. She's bleeding to death. Blood's supposed to be
thicker than water, but hers isn't, poor girl. If it would clot she
might pull through. Or I could save her by transfusion, but we can't
find any relatives, and there's mighty little time."

The attending nurse entered. "The patient's brother is here," she
announced, "and is asking to see her."

"Her brother!" The surgeon's face lighted. "What's he like?"

"About twenty, Doctor; looks strong and healthy."

"See him, Nurse. Tell him the facts. Say his sister will die unless
he'll give some blood to her. Or wait!" He turned to Markham.
"Harry, you do it! Persuasion's your line. Make believe he's a jury.
But put it strong, old man! And hurry! Every minute counts!"

The boy was standing stolidly in the waiting-room, only the pallor
of his healthy skin and the anxiety of his clear eyes hinting the
strain. Markham explained swiftly, concisely.

"Doctor Burroughs says it's her one chance," he ended.

The boy drew in his breath and paled visibly.

"You mean Nell'll die if some one don't swap his blood for hers?"

"Unless the blood she has lost is replaced----"

"Well, quit beefin'," interrupted the other roughly. "I'm here,
ain't I?"

When he entered the operating room the boy gave a low cry of pain,
bent over the form on the table, and pressed his lips to the white
forehead. When he looked up his eyes were filled with tears. He
nodded to the surgeon.

Doggedly, almost defiantly, he submitted himself, but when the
artery had been severed and the blood was pulsing from his veins to
the inanimate form beside him his expression changed to that of
abject resignation. Several times he sighed audibly, but as if from
mental rather than bodily anguish. The silence became oppressive. To
Markham it seemed hours before the surgeon looked up from his vigil
and nodded to the nurse. Then:

"You're a brave lad," he said cheerfully to the boy. "Your sacrifice
has won!"

The boy, pale and weak, tried to smile. "Thank God!" he muttered.
Then, with twitching mouth: "Say, Doc, how soon do I croak?"

"Why, not for a good many years, I hope." The surgeon turned
frowningly to Markham. "Didn't you explain that there was no danger
to him?"

"God! I'm afraid I didn't!" stammered Markham. "I was so keen to get
his consent. Do you mean that he thought----"

The surgeon nodded pityingly and turned to the lad. "You're not
going to die," he said gently. "You'll be all right to-morrow. But
I'm deeply sorry you've suffered as you must have suffered the past
hour. You were braver than any of us suspected!"

"Aw, that's all right," muttered the boy. "She's my sister, ain't
she?"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE OLD GROVE CROSSING

By Albert H. Coggins


More mother's tears, and the fourth prisoner discharged! The judge
began to fear permanent softening of the heart and therefore took
grim satisfaction when the name Timothy McMenamin, alias "One Eyed
Johnny," was called and there shambled into the dock a chronic old
jail-bird whose appearance left no remote possibility of the further
painful exercise of discretionary powers.

Silence reigned while his Honour scanned the card. From highway
robbery and safe cracking the record of Timothy ran the entire gamut
of inspiring action, and by some subtle mental telepathy the crowd
knew that he had indeed been a man of parts. But now Timothy was in
the sere and yellow and had fallen on evil days. The Judge read
aloud from the present indictment, to which Timothy had sullenly
pleaded "Guilty."

"Soliciting alms upon the public thoroughfare and vagrancy."

Then fraught with deep agrieve, his "Why--Timothy!" caught the
levity of the crowded courtroom.

The Judge pursed pondering lips. Then a playful thought was his.

"Are you represented by counsel, Timothy?"

Timothy was not.

"Mr. Wallace!"

If a room may be said to gasp, that courtroom gasped.

William R. K. Wallace!

The rubber rattle of an impromptu assignment, usually thrown the
teething tyro, given to the very leader of the bar!

His Honour was indeed facetious.

Wallace, engaged in an undertone confab with a court clerk, looked
up, converted the instinctive gesture of impatience into one of
good-natured acquiescence, and stepped forward. The crowd's tribute
to supremacy: a hush so distinct as to seem almost audible.

The Judge assumed due solemnity.

"Mr. Wallace, we have here a knight-errant of most distinguished
parts. He has sojourned in many public institutions. A most
cosmopolitan citizen and of unquestioned social standing; having met
some of the best wardens in the country. Some twenty years ago he
committed a little indiscretion up in Montour County, dwelling there
subsequently for a period of six months. That being your own native
heath, Mr. Wallace, would it not be chivalric and neighbourly upon
your part to volunteer your professional services!"

The crowd enjoyed the speech and scene. In all his years at the bar
no one had ever seen William R. K. Wallace nonplussed. Now his
Honour had succeeded in "putting one over" on him. His "Certainly,
your Honour," was but instinctive. Of the purport of a possible plea
Wallace had no remote idea. So he turned and indulged in a
critically professional survey of his client.

As he took in the sullen figure, unshaven, unkempt, and hard, the
forbidding aspect painfully accentuated by the patch over one
sightless eye--what came of a sudden to the attorney? Masterful and
adroit though he was, did he feel the utter futility of it all? It
certainly seemed that Wallace--William R. K. Wallace--trembled
through an acute second of actual stage fright, the horrible
unnerved instant when the mind gropes and finds no substance of
thought. Yes, his Honour had scored.

Then, himself again, he addressed the Court. Quietly, almost
conversationally and entirely away from the subject at hand; but
this was Wallace, and no one stayed him.

"I was born in Centre County, your Honour, not Montour, but so close
to the county line that your Honour's impression is to all intents
and purposes correct. So close, in fact, that right down the
driveway, scarcely a hundred yards away, one could step into Montour
County by crossing the railroad tracks, for _they_ were the county
line at that corner."

Then for a few seconds he indulged in memory's visualization of
early days. Still in a desultory way he continued:

"We lived there contentedly, your Honour, a good father, a sainted
mother, myself a grown boy, and--and a baby sister.... She had come
late.... Perhaps that's one reason we made so much of her. Just
turned two she was, and a little bundle of winsomeness.... She
gathered to herself all the glinting morning sunlight of the
mountain tops."

People stirred restlessly. This was not like Wallace. True, he
sometimes indulged in sentiment before a jury and ofttime moved the
sturdy yeomanry to free some red-handed rascal regardless of the
facts. But to parade his own early rural days and his little
sister--well, it only indicated that he was sore pressed.

But now the discerning could note the least little shade of
resonance and purpose. And, too, he half turned from time to time
toward the man in the dock.

"Through that valley the magnificent Blue Diamond Express went
thundering by, bearing its burden of the prosperous and
contented.... But then there were other trains, the long slow
freights that wended their way, laden, down the valley. They, too,
carried passengers ... on the couplings ... cramped up underneath
... or smuggled into the corner of a box car. These were of the
underworld--the discontented and the disinherited. The tramp, the
outcast ... perchance the criminal, making his getaway from city to
city."

He glanced keenly, quickly; his client was beginning to emerge from
stolid indifference.

"The Old Grove Crossing, as they called it, was not so well guarded
twenty years ago as now, your Honour. And one day this little
two-year-old took it into her baby head to roam. Perhaps childish
fancy paints the wild flowers on a distant hill brighter, perhaps
some errant butterfly winged its random way across the tracks--who
knows?

"At all events, the wanderlust seized her tiny feet and she had come
just so near Montour County that she had but to cross the far track
to have completely changed jurisdiction. And there she stood, for a
big, slow-moving train of empties occupied that track. Puzzled?
Perhaps a little; but still it was a matter of no moment.... Neither,
your Honour, was the big, thundering Blue Diamond. Why should it be?
There existed in all this world no such thing as either evil or
fear.... And so she waited, transfixed only by wonderment as the
monster thing bore down on her.... I'm aware, your Honour, that in
every well-appointed melodrama the hero always appears at the proper
instant.... But in real life sometimes--well, we _have_ tried cases
in our courts, the purpose of which was to determine the dollar
value of that for which there can be no recompense--a baby life
crushed out."

He paused for an impressive second.

"And this was my baby sister.

"Oh, yes, they saw her ... when less than two hundred feet away.
Along that straightaway the Montour Valley Railroad Company, in its
corporate wisdom, shot its Blue Diamond seventy miles an hour. The
engineer was the best man on the line--and he fainted dead away.
That's what their best man did. He had a baby of his own. Instinct
made him throw on the brakes ... as well, a child's bucket of sand
on the tracks! ... Down, down it came, shrieking, crashing,
pounding, and swirling from side to side; belching its hell of
destruction and rasping its million sparks as the brakes half
gripped.... Only one small mercy vouchsafed--by its awful might
and momentum--instant death!"

Dramatically Wallace passed his hand over his forehead. The Judge
had done the same. So well had he played upon their emotions that he
sensed to perfection the proper pause duration....

"No, your Honour," he said quietly, "she did not die. This little
story of real life followed the conventional.... Sometimes God is
as good as the dramatist. They told us the meagre details. _He_
didn't; he had a pressing engagement and slipped away, resuming, I
suppose, his 'reservations' on his Blue Diamond.... He wasn't
very prepossessing, anyway, from all accounts. Any ten-twenty-thirty
dramatist could have given us a more presentable, better manicured
hero."

Wallace sauntered a little.

"This object that tumbled from a box car, sprawled, picked himself
up, and then jumped like a cat, was, as a matter of fact, a nobody,
an outcast, a crook----"

Casually, it seemed, his hand rested on the bowed shoulder of the
broken old man.

"Just a one-eyed yeggman, making his way----"

He got no further. The courtroom was in an uproar and unrestrained
applause ran its riotous course. There was none to check it.

His Honour, savagely surreptitious with his handkerchief, finally
took command of himself and the situation.

"Mr. Wallace, the Court requires no argument in this case. We will
accept the guarantee of future good conduct which you were about to
offer, and, if necessary, underwrite it ourselves.... Sentence
suspended!"

Then as the Court was adjourned and they crowded about the pair of
them, counsel and client, a shouldering, demonstrative throng a
dozen deep, the Judge, before retiring stilled them for a brief
afterword.

"Mr. Wallace, in the matter of the--ah, of certain refreshments, in
which we had rendered a mental ruling incidental to the costs
thereof, we would say that ruling is hereby reversed and the--the
refreshments--are on--the Court."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

LOST AND FOUND

By John Kendrick Bangs


                           -- I --

The week-end was over, and Begbie had returned to town, restless,
and strangely unhappy. There was within him a curious sense of
something lost, and yet, now and then, the intimation of another
something that seemed to be gain wholly would flash across the
horizon of his reflections like a ray of sunshine attempting to
penetrate a possible rift in the clouds.

He unpacked his suit-case listlessly, and compared its contents with
the catalogue of his week-end needs which he always kept pasted on
the inner side of the cover of his suit-case. Everything was there,
from hair-brush to dinner-coat--and yet that sense of something
left behind still oppressed him. A second time he went over the list
and compared it with his possessions, to find that nothing was
missing; and then on a sudden there flashed across his mind a full
realization of what the lost object was.

"Ah!" he ejaculated with a deep sigh of relief.

"That's it! I will write at once to my hostess and ask her to return
it."

Action followed the resolution, and, seating himself at his
escritoire, Begbie wrote:

                                        "The Mossmere, New York.
                                        "August ----, 19--.

"My Dear Mrs. Shelton:

"Upon my return from the never-to-be-forgotten series of golden
hours at Sea Cliff I find that, after the habit of the departing
guest, I have left at least one of my possessions behind me. It is
of value perhaps to nobody but myself, but, poor as it is, I cannot
very well do without it. It is my _heart_. If by some good chance
you have found it, and it is of no use to you, will you be good
enough some time soon, when you have nothing better to do, to return
it to me? Or, if by some good fortune you find it worth retaining,
will you please tell me so, that I may know that it is in your
custody and is not lying somewhere cold and neglected? It is the
only one I have, and it has never passed out of my keeping before.

                                "Always devotedly yours,
                                                "Harrison Begbie."


                           -- II --

It was on the morning of the second day after the mailing of this
letter that Begbie found a dainty-hued missive lying beside his
plate at the breakfast-table. It was postmarked Sea Cliff, and
addressed in the familiar handwriting of his hostess. Feverishly he
tore it open, and found the following:

                                    "Sea Cliff, August ----, 19--.

"My Dear Mr. Begbie:

"What careless creatures you men are! I have found ten such articles
as you describe in my house during the past ten days, and out of so
vast and varied a number I cannot quite decide which one is yours.
Some of them are badly cracked; some of them are battered
hopelessly--only one of them is in what I should call an A1, first
class, condition. I am hoping it is yours, but I do not know. In any
event, on receipt of this won't you come down here at once and we
can run over them together. I will meet you with the motor on the
arrival of the 12:15 at Wavecrest Station.

"Meanwhile, my dear Mr. Begbie, knowing how essential a part of the
human mechanism a heart truly is--_I send you mine_ to take the
place of the other. You may keep it until your own is returned to
you.

                                    "Always sincerely,
                                                "Mary Shelton."

"P.S.--Telegraph me if you will be on the 12:15."


                         -- III --

Ten minutes later the following rush-message sped over the wires:

                                    "New York, Aug. ----, 19--.
"Mrs. Shelton, Sea Cliff, L. I.:

"Haven't time to wire you of arrival on 12:15. Am rushing to catch
the 9:05.

                                                    "Harrison."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

YOU CAN NEVER TELL

By "B. MacArthur"


Very dimly shone the lamps of the rickshaws; very faintly came the
tap-tap of the sandals passing to and fro on the Bund. Yokohama was
going to sleep, and the great liners in the bay looked dark and
ghost-like against the rising moon. The three men sitting on the
terrace of the Grand Hotel met here every ninth week. They were
captains of three of the liners. All were Englishmen. Blackburn, who
commanded a ship owned and manned by Japanese, lit his pipe and
gazed out across the harbour, drawing his hand over his brow and
hair.

"Same old heat," he said.

The others nodded.

Bainbridge, a slight little man with fair hair, moved restlessly.

"A week, and we'll all be at opposite corners again," he said, "none
of them much cooler."

"Not bad at home now," mused Villiers, broad and silent man, with
the gray eyes of a dreamer. He leaned forward, smiling slightly.

"D'ye know, it's three years next month since I've seen th' wife.
Devil of a life! And I don't see my way to getting back yet, either.
No place for women, the East."

Bainbridge stared at him uneasily.

"Yes, deuce of a life," he assented, "but worse for the women, even
in England. Always standing on their own legs, as it were, pinching
and skimping for a chap they only see once in a couple of years. I
say, y'know, it's rotten bad for them, at best."

"Quite right," said Villiers, "and it is an experience that is bound
to have its effect. The strong woman will be stronger, the weak
woman weaker, and the bad woman--will go under."

Blackburn smiled.

"Then we are three lucky chaps," he said, and blew a ring of smoke
and looked at it rather sentimentally.

Villiers laughed.

"The queer part about it is the faith they've got. It's that which
pulls them through. I believe if I wrote the wife to-night that I'd
a Japanese girl in Nagasaki she'd never believe me, though she's
quite sophisticated enough to be cognizant of the prevalence of that
sort of thing out here. She takes the attitude that such things
might happen--but not to her or hers. It's rather a potent point of
view."

"It's an absurd point of view--no offence to you, old chap," said
Bainbridge. "Suppose it was a fact and she had to face it--what
would be her attitude?"

"It couldn't be a fact so long as she felt as she does about it,"
answered Villiers; "it is that which insures her being quite right
in her belief."

"Oh, rot!" said Bainbridge. "You're an idealist." He took a deep
drink from his tall glass. "I'll bet you if all three of us wrote
home to-night in the light of remorseful confession every one of us
would receive replies, next mail out, to the same effect."

"There's just one way to prove that," said Villiers, "and that's to
write."

"Done!" said Bainbridge.

"Hold on, old chaps!" Blackburn knocked out the ashes from his pipe.
"D'ye know you're about to play a devilish risky game? Shouldn't
care to enter it myself. Luck to you, however, if you must. But both
of you are taking too much for granted."

"You hold the stakes, then," said Villiers complacently. "Next trip
we meet here, as per schedule, we'll have our mail first thing and
rendezvous at eight for supper. If we can't read our letters aloud
we can at least describe the attitude taken therein, which is the
point under discussion."

"Very well," said Blackburn, "but I warn you it's a silly affair."

                   *       *       *       *       *

Nine weeks later Blackburn, tying his tie before the mirror in his
cabin, felt a curious interest in seeing his two friends as had been
arranged at their previous meeting. They would have received their
mail from home even as he had received his, but it was with a thrill
of satisfaction that he remembered he had not endangered his own or
his wife's happiness in what he considered the mad manner of his
friends.

Very promptly, then, and most serene, he appeared on the terrace and
seated himself at the usual table to await their arrival.

Bainbridge presently appeared and, after greeting Blackburn, sat
down and lit a pipe. They talked spasmodically. A curious
tranquillity seemed to have enveloped the little man, which so held
Blackburn's attention that he could think of nothing to say. They
sat in silence, Blackburn mentally taking stock of his friend. All
his nervousness and cynicism seemed to have left him, and his eyes,
usually so furtive, looked very still and deep.

"Wonder why Villiers doesn't come along," said Blackburn at last.

Bainbridge nodded.... "I'll read you my letter now," he said, and
in a lower voice: "By Jove, old chap, I was quite wrong, d'ye know?
Never would have believed it possible any one could feel so about a
chap like me."

He laid the letter on the table. "Wonderful thing that," he said;
and Blackburn took it.

"Are you quite sure you want me to read this?" he asked.

"Quite," replied Bainbridge, "because--because it's changed things
so--for me, you know."

Blackburn read:

"Dear Lad:

"Something in my heart tells me this horrible thing isn't true. It
can't be. Such things may happen to people, but somehow I can't feel
it has happened to me and mine. But if it has--and you will begin
again because your best nature still cares for me--won't you begin
right now, because I love you and will try to forget. I can't write
more.

                                                          "Minnie."

When Blackburn had finished he folded it very gently and handed it
to Bainbridge.

"I congratulate you, old fellow," he said gravely, and then: "Let's
go up to Villiers' room and stir him up. He may be snoozing."

They rose and climbed the stairs to the room Villiers was wont to
occupy during his stay in port. The door was unlocked, and after
knocking and receiving no reply they entered. It was so dark at
first they could see nothing. Blackburn, dimly discerning the
bureau, shuffled toward it to light the gas. But before he reached
it his foot struck a soft object, and simultaneously a nauseous wave
of horror swept over him.

"My God! Light a match," he said.

Bainbridge did so and, stepping over the prone figure, lit the gas
with trembling hands.

Villiers was quite dead. His gun lay by his side, and in a little
pool of blood by his right temple a crumpled letter lay, face up.

"Nothing should be touched," said Blackburn, "until the proper steps
have been taken--except----"

Bainbridge stooped and lifted the bloody page.

"Except this," he said, and, folding it carefully, put it in his
wallet.

                   *       *       *       *       *

When, many hours later, Blackburn was aboard his ship, he locked his
cabin door, and Bainbridge, who had accompanied him for the purpose,
spread out the sheet and read it slowly.

"My Dear Frank:

"Your rather extraordinary epistle has reached me, and I assure you
it was quite unnecessary. You surely do not expect me to have lived
all these years alone and to have known men as I do without
realizing that I could scarcely expect you to live the life of a
celibate in the 'Far East.' In this strange little game of life we
must take our pleasures as they come, and I have taken mine even as
I have not prevented you from taking yours. Foolish boy! If you
expected me to have hysterics over your self-imposed confession you
may be relieved to know that I merely laughed at it. We are all in
the same boat, we sinners, so why should one of us cavil at another?
Cheer up and don't take life so seriously.

                                                            "Sue."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE ESCAPE

By A. Leslie Goodwin


The tent flap lifted and dropped. The prisoner could make out the
dim outlines of a man's form.

"To be shot at sunrise, eh?"

The prisoner stirred quickly. That voice was strangely familiar to
him.

The figure moved nearer. A knife flashed and the prisoner's bonds
fell off.

"Follow me, and not a sound."

They crept out of the tent, past a dozing sentry, and across a dark
field.

"Now," said the guide, as they straightened up in the shadow of a
hedge, "a proposition, for cousins will be cousins, even in war."

He paused, looked warily around, and emitted a low chuckle.

"Six months ago," he continued, "when I was captured by your side
and sentenced to be shot you rescued me, as I have you. You showed
me our lines and gave me two minutes to get away. After that two
minutes you were to fire, and you----"

He stopped, wheeled like a flash, but too late. A shot rang out, and
another.

The two men stiffened, leaned toward each other, gasped, and dropped
to the ground.

Around the corner of the hedge stepped the sentry, a smoking
automatic in his hand.

"Huh!" he growled, stirring the prostrate figures with his foot.
"Relatives have no business on opposite sides, anyway."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

TWO LETTERS, A TELEGRAM, AND A FINALE

By H. S. Haskins


                                            "New York, September 10.

"Dearest Marian:

"Is it not time to break silence? Three months have passed since we
quarrelled on the eve of your departure for the mountains. I wrote
twice during the first week. You did not answer. Pride forbade my
risking another rebuff.

"Frequently I have been so desperate that it has consoled me to run
into needless danger. Often, during the summer, I have swum out
beyond the breakers when there was a heavy undertow. I have taken
automobile tours by myself, speeding at seventy miles an hour over
narrow roads along mountainsides.

"These foolhardy adventures were backed by what must seem to you an
unaccountable desire for revenge. I pictured your face as you read
an account of my death; gloated over the horror in your eyes when
they scanned the ghastly details.

"I invented such news items as these: 'Blake's body was cast up on
the beach, horribly gashed by the rocks'; or, 'The automobile leaped
into a chasm. Blake, clinging to the wheel, was crushed into an
unrecognizable mass when the car turned turtle.'

"This desire to punish you for your neglect seems a barbarous
instinct or a childish whim, as you choose. But, ashamed of it as I
may be, and struggle against it as I will, such a thought is often
with me.

"Take this morning, for instance: alighting from the train at Jersey
City, I stopped to admire the huge locomotive which has been lately
put on the morning express. I laid my hand on one bulky cylinder.
'What if this monster should explode with me standing here!' I
thought. 'What if one side of my face and my right arm were blown
off! What would she say, my little Princess of Indifference, far
away in her mountain fastness?'

"I gave imagination its head. It soon seemed as if the horrible
thing had really happened. They picked me up, conscious and
suffering frightfully. Before I slipped into merciful oblivion the
awful truth was apparent to me--my right arm was gone and the right
side of my face was terribly scalded by the blinding steam.

"Weeks grew into months. The day before the bandages were to be
removed from my face I escaped from the hospital. I took a night
express to Montreal. From Montreal I plunged into the wilderness,
anywhere to get away from the sight of man, where, slowly and
painfully, with my untrained left arm, I built a hut on the side of
a mountain. Besides the rough furniture I installed a typewriter and
a framed photograph of you. Just these two things with which to
start life over again.

"Here I learned with difficulty to typewrite with one hand. At first
it baffled me to devise some way of depressing the shift key. Then I
attached a rough contrivance for working the shift key with my foot.
Finally I became fairly expert, and began to submit magazine
stories, with some success.

"Often I dreamed of a footstep outside my cabin, of the swish of
skirts, of a cry, and somebody rushing across the floor. Two hands,
unmistakably yours, pressed my eyes--my good eye on the good side
of my face and my useless eye on the useless side of my face. Then I
seemed to play a gruesome hide-and-seek, twisting, turning,
dodging--ever striving to keep the undamaged side of my face toward
you, concealing the stricken side from your eyes.

"That's enough of such rubbish. Fancies, made morbid by your long
silence, have run away with me. Forgive me. But have mercy, and
write!

"I have stopped running risks in the water. I observe the legal rate
of speed in my car. But I have not given up an equally hazardous
adventure--loving you.

                                    "Forever and ever yours,
                                                        "John."

"Paul Smith's, Adirondacks, N. Y.,
September 14.

"My Own Silly John:

"Your letter gave me the shivers. Forgive me. I have been
thoughtless and brutal. Your letter was so graphic, your description
of your make-believe accident in the train-sheds so real, that I
cannot get it out of my mind, I love you, love you, love you! I
shall leave here two weeks from to-morrow. I'd leave to-night if it
were not for Mother, who is not well enough yet to travel. That
fictitious cabin on the mountainside with you blinded and alone
frightened me. Be careful, John; be careful, you dear, dear thing!

                                            "Always yours,
                                                    "Marian."


                                            (Telegram)
                                            "Noonday Club, New York,
                                            September 24.

"Marian Blackmar:

"Paul Smith's, Adirondacks, N. Y.

"The cabin on the mountain was not fictitious. Neither was the
explosion of the locomotive, which happened three months ago. I gave
an assumed name at the hospital. Do not try to find me. There is
nothing left worth finding. I want to be remembered as I was when we
parted. Good-bye.

                                                            "John."


                            The Finale

An October moon shone through the scarlet leaves of a Canadian
forest. Shadows from the thinning branches fell across the clearing
where John Blake's cabin clung to the side of a mountain. The light
from a shaded lamp, within, fell upon a typewriter with its singular
attachment for depressing the shift key.

Before the machine John sat, bowed in thought, his right sleeve
hanging empty. He was thinking of the letter which he had written to
Marian Blackmar, and which he had enclosed with a note to the
steward of the Noonday Club, to be mailed from New York, for the
sake of the postmark, of the telegram which had been relayed through
the same club.

The autumn wind coaxed the logs in the fireplace. The responsive
flames lighted with a warm glow the photographed features of the
beautiful girl in the oval frame.

There was a footstep outside the cabin, the swish of skirts, a cry,
and somebody rushing across the floor. Two hands, unmistakably hers,
were pressed over his eyes, the good eye and the bad eye alike. Two
lips, every now and then interrupting themselves against his, wept
and laughed and pleaded and made-believe scold, and finally
persuaded John that no life can be disfigured where love dwells.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE INTRUDER

By Reginald Barlow


Midwinter, bitterly cold.

Having entered the house, I drew the blinds and lit the gas-logs,
stretched myself in an armchair, and dozed. A strange feeling crept
over me; some one else was in the room.

I slowly opened my eyes; they stared straight into a gun-muzzle; my
hands flew up.

"Stand up!"

I stood.

The other hand deftly extracted my revolver.

"Sit down!"

I sat.

"Rotten weather!"

I agreed.

"How did you get in?" I asked.

"Basement window. How d'you?"

"Front door, of course."

He looked quizzically. "Ain't Richman coming home to-night?"

"Certainly not; don't expect him."

"That's funny. Where's the servants?" The curtains behind him
trembled.

"With the Richmans, Atlantic City," I informed. "Why not call when
he's home?" I inquired. A gun, hand, and arm divided the curtain.

"Right; feel warmer now; must get to work."

"Been here before?" I asked, as the newcomer, tall and strong,
covered the bullet-head before me.

"Sure. Remember the burglary in this house five years ago? Well, I
was on that job. Another night like this. I sneaked up----"

"Biff!" The newcomer landed squarely. "Cord in that drawer," he
said. "Tie him up."

I obeyed.

"You're Mr. Jones, I believe!--I'm Mr. Richman," he continued. "My
agent wired that I'd find you here. Knew I'd be late, so sent you
the key. What's the matter with our friend?"

Our prisoner had come to, gasping, "You Richman?"

"Yes."

"I'm Burns, Headquarters. Damn you, I'll pinch you, too----"

He raved on. Richman lifted the 'phone. Found it out of order. I
knew he would.

"Police Station is two blocks south," he informed me. "Go and notify
them. I'll take care of this noisy person."

"Damn fool! He's a crook!" bawled the helpless one.

"He thinks you're as bad as himself," laughed Richman.

"How did you learn of my danger?" I inquired.

"I borrowed a basement key from the servants. On entering I heard
voices up here; crept upstairs, peeped through the curtains, saw
your predicament, and nailed the fellow."

"I'm eternally grateful," I said warmly.

"Don't mention it. Now, go for the police, like a good fellow."

"Surely. Take care of yourself," I said. Entering the hall, I lifted
a heavy fur coat as the thud of footsteps approached the front
steps. I opened the door quickly and faced the newcomer, closing it
behind me.

"Pardon! Is Mr. Richman in?" he inquired.

"Are you Jones?" I asked.

"Yes."

"Richman is waiting for you. Pardon my haste. Let yourself in. You
have a key."

My bag was very heavy, being full of Richman's silver and a few
thousand dollars' worth of jewellery, but I made good time through
the snow.

I remembered Richman saying the Police Station was two blocks
south--which, of course, explains why I went north.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

MOLTEN METAL

By Hornell Hart


The president of the Canfield Iron Works sat at his desk, poring
over departmental reports. The hush of Saturday afternoon had
settled over the deserted works. Instead of the rumble of trucks,
the tattoo of steam hammers, and the shrill of signal whistles, a
fly droned at the window screen and birds twittered from the eaves.

It was with a startled feeling that the president looked up and saw,
standing at the end of his desk, a tall, dully dressed working girl.
Her eyes were circled with shadow, and her thin lips were set with
the expression of one who forces back tears.

"I came to get five hundred dollars," said the girl, in a tense
voice. He looked up at her in dumb astonishment, and she hurried on.
"We just got to have it, and you owe it to us. Pa, he kept telling
the boss that the big ladle for the melted iron was cracked and it
would spill some day, and the boss just laughed. Well, one day,
about three months ago, he came up here to the office to tell you
about it, and the fella out there told him to go on out and mind his
business.

"Well, last month--on Thursday, it was--the handle broke off and
spilled the hot iron all over Pa and the men in his gang. They
brought him home, and his legs were all burned off, and he was dead.
John Burczyk his name was.

"I'm the oldest at home, and all the others are little. There ain't
one of all six of them that can work yet. And Ma, she ain't very
strong, and she can't earn much, washing. Well, we needed money
awful bad, and a smart fella from you came to our house and gave Ma
ten dollars. Ma's Slovak, and she can't read English, and she didn't
know what it was she was signing. Well, she found she'd signed away
her rights to sue for money from you, because dad was killed. Now
you're going to give us that money." She finished with a harsh
peremptoriness and paused. The president started to speak, but she
stopped him with a crude, imperative gesture.

"You wait," she said; "I ain't through yet. It was bad enough that
you killed Pa and stole the damage money from her and the kids. But
that ain't all. You done worse than that. There was another man
burned with that melted iron. His name was Frank Nokovick." The
girl's voice rose and broke in a sob, but she choked it back harshly
and struggled on.

"Frank--he and I was sweethearts for a year and a half before that,
but he couldn't get the money for the furniture and things. Well, we
was to be married on Saturday, but Thursday the ladle broke and the
iron burned Frank all down the side. He made 'em bring him home, and
he sent for the priest. 'Run for the priest, Pete,' he says to my
brother. 'Run like hell, and make him come quick.'

"Frank, he was groaning terrible, but he just grabbed hold of my
hand and hung onto it, and he kept saying, 'Our kid's got to have a
father, Mary. Our kid's got to have a father.'

"Well, the priest came as quick as he could, and he was going to
marry us, but Frank was dead."

The girl's voice trailed off into a wail, but she choked on
defiantly.

"Now I lost my job, because they can all see my trouble. And we got
to have the money. You give me that five hundred dollars! You give
it to me!"

The president had turned his back toward her. She fumbled nervously
with a queerly shaped thing covered with a handkerchief in her right
hand. The president turned silently and handed her a bundle. Dumbly
she counted five one-hundred-dollar bills. At the bottom was a
check.

"Pay to the order of Mary Burczyk," it read, "two thousand dollars."

Mary sank on the floor in a little heap. "I'd rather have shot you,"
she sobbed.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE WINNER'S LOSS

By Elliott Flower


"Bet you fifty!"

"Aw, make it worth while."

"Two hundred!"

"You're on. Let Jack hold the stakes."

"Suits me."

Four hundred dollars was placed in the hands of Jack Strong by the
disputatious sports, and he carefully put it away with the lone
five-dollar bill of which he was possessed.

Jack, although sportily inclined, lacked the cash to be a sport
himself, but he was known to the two who thus disagreed, and they
trusted him. He might be poor, but he was honest.

Nor was this confidence misplaced--at least so far as his honesty
was concerned, although there might be question as to his judgment
and discretion.

For instance, carrying that much money, it was a foolish thing to
let an affable stranger scrape a barroom acquaintance with him when
he stopped in at Pete's on his way to his little mortgaged home. He
realized that later. He was not drunk--positively, he was not
drunk, for he recalled everything distinctly, but he did fraternize
briefly with the jovial stranger. And in seeking his lone
five-dollar bill, that he might return the joyous stranger's
hospitality, he did display the four-hundred-dollar roll. It was all
very clear to him the next morning, when he found nothing in his
pockets but the change from the five-dollar bill.

Naturally, he hastened to Pete's to learn what he could of the
amiable stranger, which was nothing. Then he sought his sporty
friends, and made full confession. They regarded him with coldly
suspicious eyes, deeming it strange that one so wise should happen
to be robbed when he was carrying their money. He promised
restitution, but they were not appeased, for well they knew that it
would take him about four years to repay four hundred dollars.

He went to the police, and the police promised to do what they could
to identify, locate, and apprehend the sociable stranger, but there
was still much in the attitude of the sporty pair to make him
uneasy.

He remained at home that evening, having neither heart nor money for
livelier places, and about eight o'clock he had his reward. The
police telephoned him that they had the genial stranger in custody.

"Hold him!" he cried jubilantly. "I'll be right down."

He was rushing for his hat when his wife, who had been strangely
silent and thoughtful, stopped him.

"John," she said, "I'd like a word with you before you go out. Why
have you deceived me?"

"Deceived you!" he exclaimed.

"Yes, deceived me," she repeated severely. "I've suspected this
duplicity for some time, and now I have proof. When I asked you for
ten dollars yesterday you said you didn't have it, but last night I
found four hundred dollars in your pocket."

"Howling Petey!" he cried. "Great jumping grasshoppers! I've had a
man arrested for that, and two others are just about ready to beat
me up! Where is it, Mary--quick!"

"I applied it on the mortgage," she answered calmly.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE RECOIL OF THE GUN

By Marian Parker


Yes, I will tell you why I did it. I can talk to you, because you
are a gentleman. You will understand. Those others were horrible
men, policemen. They hustled me, they took me by the arm--me! Did
you ever see a prison cell before? I never did. It's a queer place
to receive you in, but that isn't my fault. They won't let me out.

You wish to know why I killed my husband? It does sound rather
dreadful, doesn't it? Though, you know, a woman might get
angry--might throw something at a man. But I wasn't angry. It's not
really hard to kill people. Why, even now, here, alone with
you--but they haven't left anything handy. May you call in your
friend from the corridor? Yes, of course.

About my husband. He was a very good man, very fond of me; a little
tiresome, but I wouldn't have killed him for that. People won't
understand that I did it from the highest motives.

This is the reason. It's very reasonable. _I did it for the
children._ Now you know.

He began to follow me about. He began to watch me. Even when I was
alone he watched me. He was suspicious. That's a very bad sign. I
know what it meant. It was dreadful to know, but everything proved
it. He was going insane. But no one else knew. If I waited people
would find out. I had to think of the children, my little girls. No
one would have married them. It's hereditary, you know. So I shot
him.

Your friend's a lawyer? He will get me off? They won't hang me? I
knew they wouldn't if I explained. What's that you said? I heard! To
plead insanity. _For me?_ But he mustn't do that! _The
girls_--don't you see? Why, you're crazy! No one would marry them!
And I did it for them! I did it for them!

--------------------------------------------------------------------

"MAN MAY LOVE"

By Robert Sharp


"Miss Young, I want to ask you something," and Geoffrey modestly
pulled the sheets close up under his pink chin. "I suppose you'll
think me an awful bore for saying this to you so abruptly, but I'm
dreadfully in earnest. Will you marry me, please?"

Miss Young did not stop a minute in her deft arrangement of his
breakfast tray. She didn't even blush. "No, I don't think I will,"
she answered. "You see, I can't marry every one that asks me."

"How many have you married already?"

"Well, I haven't married any yet."

"Then marry me."

The unruffled little nurse smiled at his impetuosity. "You know,"
she said, "every marriageable male that I have ever nursed has
proposed to me. It is merely a sign of recovery. It ought to go on
the list of symptoms."

"My proposal is a symptom, all right, but not of recovery. It is a
symptom that I am desperately in love."

"You do it beautifully, but you are not quite so romantic as
Antonio, my last potential husband. He wanted me to flee with him to
Italy, but his wife came and took him away."

Geoffrey was indignant. "Do you think I'm going to let you stay here
while every Dick, Tom, and Dago Henry proposes to you?"

"Better eat your breakfast, Sonny."

"Sonny," Geoffrey flounced over, his face to the wall. "I don't care
for any breakfast, thank you."

"All right, I'll take the tray away in a minute," and with a knowing
smile she left the room.

Geoffrey was twenty-one, possessing all the impetuousness and
dignity accessory to that age. He had offered his love and had been
laughed at. She had called him "Sonny."

Yet, during those three past weeks of antiseptic nightmare she had
been extremely kind to him. Perhaps she loved some one else. At the
thought Geoffrey became quite disconsolate.

But finally he turned over and his eyes fell upon the breakfast tray
laid temptingly beside his bed. A ravenous hunger assailed him. He
pulled the tray onto the bed and began to eat. After all, things
were not so bad. A woman always had to be coaxed.

Meanwhile Miss Young was talking it over with a sister nurse at
breakfast in the nurses' quarters. "What I want to know, Heine, is
this. When do we ever get a fair chance at a man? We don't get away
from the hospital long enough at a time to capture one, and here,
where we receive proposals every day, it's against the rules to
marry the patients."

"Did he propose to you?" interposed Heine.

"Yes, he did. And he's a nice boy, too."

"Excuse me, not for mine. I'm vaccinated against marriage. I'm tired
of having men growl and grumble at me all the time."

"Sure, so am I. But, Heine, wouldn't it be perfectly grand to have
just one great big man to jaw at you! He asked me to call him
Geoffrey."

"Look here, kid, you're not falling in love, are you?" demanded the
quizzical Heine.

"I wonder if he has another girl," answered Miss Young irrelevantly.

About noon Geoffrey became exceedingly restless. Miss Young smoothed
his pillows again and again. Once, when her hand strayed temptingly
near, he grasped it and kissed it. It must be confessed that Miss
Young didn't withdraw her hand quite so quickly as the
superintendent would have thought proper. She even blushed, and that
was very unusual for the sophisticated nurse.

"Gee, I know I'm an awful bore to keep bothering you like this, but
haven't you changed your mind? Don't you think you can marry me?"

"Look here, Geoffrey"--she really hadn't meant to call him
Geoffrey--"you don't know what you're talking about. I'm the only
woman you've seen in the last three weeks. I may have helped pull
you over some pretty rough places. Of course you think you have to
marry your benefactor."

"I have to marry you, Miss Young, but that's not the reason. I'm
going to ask you three times a day until you consent to be my wife."

"Well, keep it up, Geoffrey. It will help pass the time." Miss Young
had quite regained her customary impenetrability.

Geoffrey kept his word. When his nurse was in the room he watched
her continually and at the most unexpected times propounded the old
question. If she left the room he always developed a dreadful thirst
as an excuse for an imperative summons. Even Miss Young found it
hard to doubt his sincerity. She floundered between natural emotions
and her professional indifference.

At last Geoffrey was pronounced well, and yet the girl had not
consented. He had no excuse for remaining longer, so with evident
bad humour he consented to go.

"Miss Young," he said, "I'm going home to-day, and I just won't
leave you here for some dirty 'Dago' to be grabbing at your hand and
proposing to you all the time. Marry me and come away from here."

"Geoffrey, I'm going to give you a square deal. You go home for a
month, see other girls, and if you then still want to marry me, come
up here and I'll think about it."

"I'm on, Miss Young. Say, I've found out your first name. It's
Claire, isn't it? You know I used to think 'Diana' was a peach of a
name, but 'Claire' beats it a mile."

Geoffrey went home. Miss Young cried a little in the solitude of her
room. Then she settled down to a half-hopeful vigil of waiting.
During the first two weeks she received seven letters, each one
declaring Geoffrey's undying devotion and his firm desire to return
for her. Every night she read the entire collection up to date, and
wept over them, as is the manner of women beloved. Then for days she
received no word. She fought this rather hopeless portent with
trusting heart.

Often during the long day's work when patients grumbled, when some
ogling male became amorously persistent, when the little nurse found
herself almost hating mankind, she slipped into the vacant corridor
and reread one of the treasured epistles to give her faith.

The third week dragged along and the beginning of the fourth, and
still she received not a word. At first she waited impatiently for
each day's mail, but finally she began to delay her call at the
desk, dreading the recurrent disappointment.

At last one morning at breakfast she received a letter addressed in
Geoffrey's handwriting. All aflutter she slipped it into her pocket
until she could be alone. But she couldn't wait, so she tremulously
tore the envelope open and read:

  "My Dear Miss Young:

  "I shall always regard you as a woman of the rarest good sense. You
  must have thought me a great fool. I think a man is hardly
  responsible for what he does when he is sick. I must thank you for
  your splendid nursing, and, furthermore, for the way in which you
  brought me to my senses. You see, Diana and I have made it all up
  again. I'm sending you a card."

The card bore the conventional "Mr. and Mrs. W. P. Harvey
announce----"

Miss Young slowly crumpled up the letter and shoved it into her
pocket. "Heinie," she said, "one of these days I'm going to take
advantage of some guy and marry him while I've got him down."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

ONE WAY--AND ANOTHER

By Noble May


"That's where my finish will be," said the girl. She rested her
odd-looking bundle on the railing of the bridge and looked moodily
down into the river.

Tough Muggins wasn't particularly strong on the conventionalities,
but he had stopped on the bridge to look at the river coquetting
under the moon's rays, not to listen to idle talk from strange
girls. It listened like a touch, too, so he slid an indifferent eye
around in the girl's direction and advised her to chop it.
Something, however, about the tense look of her as she gazed
fiercely down into the rippling water compelled him, in spite of his
natural inclination, to carry the matter slightly farther.

"What's got you sore on the livin' proposition?" he asked
grudgingly.

If he had expected melodrama he was doomed to disappointment.

"Same old trouble," she said quietly. "I was workin' for some swell
folks up on the North Side--real swells _they_ was, believe me.
They thought I was bad. Maybe I am. I don't know. He promised. What
more could a girl expect? When they found out, the lady she says to
me, 'Of course, I can't keep you here, Molly. It wouldn't be right
with me with two daughters of my own, but I'm awful sorry, and I
hope it'll be a lesson to you. There's plenty of chances for you to
start again. It ain't never too late to turn over a new leaf. Don't
tumble down them stairs,' she says when I kind of stumbled. Like it
would make any difference! Then she shut the door on me. 'There's
plenty of chances for you to begin over again.' That's what she
said. Lord, ain't it funny?" cried the girl. Her laugh rang out high
and shrill, seeming to cut into the clear darkness.

Tough agreed that it was funny. Having, perhaps, less sense of
humour than Molly, he qualified the statement by adding that it was
kind of tough also.

"How about the fella?" he asked casually.

"Ditched me," replied the girl. "After I come out the horspittle I
never seen hide nor hair of him. Gee," she concluded bitterly, "I
was crazy about that lad."

"Must 'a' been a kind of a mean skunk, though," judged Tough. "How
about the kid?"

The girl's eyes sought the glittering river. "I give it away," she
told him finally.

"Oh!" ejaculated Tough.

The girl seemed to feel a tentative rebuke in this. "What could I
do?" she asked. "I tried to get another job before--and I couldn't.
I don't know's I'll try again. There's easier ways"--the sentence
hung suspended for a moment--"you know."

There was no polite veil of assumed ignorance thrown over such
situations in the circle in which Tough moved. He knew, of course.
Still----

"There's better ways," he ventured.

Tough was startled at the flash of anger that lit up the girl's
shrunken face. For a moment she looked as if she would strike him.
Then, with a sharp, quick movement, she buried her face in the
covering of the bundle which she had been holding lightly on the
railing of the bridge. The next instant Tough heard a soft splash as
something struck the water.

"There's that way," a voice shrieked in his ear.

Tough sprang to the railing and looked down.

"Gawd a'mighty, girl!" he panted.

"I seen--seen--Gawd, woman!" he moistened his dry lips. "Was
it--say, it wasn't the kid?"

Molly burst into a blood-curdling laugh.

"Sure it was," she cried. "I doped it a-purpose. I been trying to
get up the nerve to do it ever since this morning. Do you think I
was going to let her grow up into a thing like her mother? Man,
you're crazy."

Tough's coat had been already flung off. "Don't be a quitter, girl,"
he gasped. "Run for the cop and tell him to put out a boat, and then
you wait for me. We'll save her and she'll be an all-right one and
like her mother, too."

Just how near Tough came to seeing his finish there in the rays of
the moon which he loved nobody but Tough ever knew. It was easy
enough to swim with the current and overtake and seize the tiny
bundle held up for the moment on the surface of the water by the
expanding draperies. It was when he turned and tried to swim back to
the bridge that the waves pushed and beat at him like cruel hands.
He thought somebody was trying to strangle him. What were they
hanging to his feet for? Why did they push him and strike him? He
wouldn't go that way. He had to go the other way. He must make them
quit twisting him. And then through the awful pounding at his brain
came a cheery voice: "Ketch a hold, bo. Ketch a hold."

Sputtering, gasping, sick, exhausted, Tough hitched his elbows
weakly over the side and let the unconscious thing he had so nearly
lost his life for slip gently into the bottom of the boat.

"Why, it's Tough Muggins," said the officer, looking down into his
face. "For the lova Mike, what was you doin'?"

Through the dank drip of his hair Tough winked.

"I just dropped in to get a drink," he said. "I belong to the cop
family and I got the habit."

It was not until the boat had ground itself gratingly up against the
rough stone ledge that served for a landing that Tough openly
acknowledged Policeman Connelley's right to an explanation of a
sort. He jerked his head toward Molly, who stood, wild-eyed and
trembling, on the narrow ledge above.

"My girl," he said succinctly. "We was scrappin', and she pitched my
bundle of clothes that I was fetchin' home overboard. There was
money in the pants," he added by way of gracious explanation. "That
was why I jumped in after 'em."

"Didn't know you had a girl, Tough." Big Jim Connelley may have had
his suspicions, but his tone was of the most conventional.

"That so?" inquired Tough as he scrambled up the ledge. "Say, Jim,
the things you don't know would fill a city directory right up to
the limit."

Then he turned to Molly. "Guess you're cooled off, now, old girl,
what?" he said. "Come on, then. Let's beat it home."

Gathering her unconscious baby to her with trembling, passionate
hands, the girl went with him trustingly.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE BLACK PATCH

By Randolph Hartley


I wear a black patch over my left eye. It has aroused the curiosity
of many; no one has suspected the horror that it hides.

Twenty years ago Bernard Vroom and I, fellow students at the
University of Jena, were devotees at the feet of Professor
Malhausen, the foremost optical surgeon of his time. Living,
working, dreaming together, Vroom and I became almost as one
intelligence in our passionate study of the anatomy of the eye.
Vroom it was who advanced the theory that a living eye-ball might be
transferred from the head of one man to the head of another. It was
I who suggested, and arranged for, the operation, performed by
Professor Malhausen, through which Vroom's left eye became mine and
my left eye became Vroom's. Professor Malhausen's monograph,
published shortly afterward, describes the delicate operation in
detail. The ultimate effects of the operation are my own story.

Very distinctly do I remember the final struggle for breath when the
anesthetic was administered; and quite as vividly do I recall my
return to consciousness, in a hospital cot, weakened by a six weeks'
illness with brain fever, which had followed the operation. Slowly
but clearly my mind advanced through the process of
self-identification, and memory brought me to the moment of my last
conscious thought. With a mingled feeling of curiosity and dread I
opened my eyes.

I opened my eyes and beheld two distinct and strongly contrasting
scenes. One, which was visible most clearly when I employed only my
right eye, was the bare hospital room in which I lay. The other,
distinct to the left eye alone, was the deck of a ship, a stretch of
blue sea, and in the distance a low, tropical coast that was to me
totally unfamiliar.

Perplexed and vaguely afraid, I begged the nurse to send at once for
Vroom. She explained gently that Vroom had recovered quickly, and
that, although deeply distressed over leaving me, he had sailed for
Egypt, a fortnight since, on a scientific mission. In a flash the
truth came to me overwhelmingly. The severing of the optic nerve had
not destroyed the sympathy between Vroom's two eyes. With Vroom's
left eye, now physically mine, I was beholding that which Vroom
beheld with his right. The magnitude of the discovery and its
potentialities stunned me. I dared not tell Professor Malhausen for
fear of being thought insane. For the same reason I have held the
secret until now.

On the second day of double-vision my left eye revealed a gorgeous
picture of the port and city of Alexandria--and of a woman.
Evidently she and Vroom were standing close together at the ship's
rail. I saw on her face an expression that I had never seen on
woman's before. I thrilled with exultation. Then suddenly I went
cold. The look was for Vroom, not for me. I had found a love that
was not mine, a love to which every atom of my being responded, and
it was to be my portion to behold on my loved one's face, by day and
by night, the manifestation of her love for another man.

From that moment on I lived in the world that was revealed to me by
my left eye. My right was employed only when I set down in my diary
the impressions and experiences of this other life. The record was
chiefly of the woman, whose name I never knew. The final entry,
unfinished, describes the evidences that I saw of her marriage to
Vroom in the English Garrison Church at Cairo. I could write no
more. A jealousy so sane and so well founded, so amply fed by new
fuel every new moment that it was the acme of torture, possessed me.
I was truly insane, but with a true vision, and to me was given the
weapon of extreme cunning that insanity provides. I convinced
Professor Malhausen that my left eye was sightless, and by
simulating calmness and strength I gained my discharge from the
hospital. The next day I sailed from Bremen for Port Said.

Upon reaching Cairo I had, naturally, no difficulty in finding my
way through the already familiar streets, to the Eden Palace Hotel,
and to the very door of Vroom's apartment, overlooking the Esbekieh
Gardens. Without plan, save for the instant sight of her I loved, I
opened the door. Vroom stood there facing me, a revolver in his
hand.

"You did not consider," he said calmly, "that my left eye also is
sympathetic; that I have followed every movement of yours; that I am
acquainted with your errand through the entries in your diary, which
I read line by line as you wrote. You shall not see her. I have sent
her far away."

I rushed upon him in a frenzy. His revolver clicked but missed fire.
I bore him backward over a divan, my hands at his throat. His eyes
grew big as I strangled him. And into my left eye came a vision of
my own face, as Vroom saw it, distorted by the lust of murder. He
died with that picture fixed in his own eye, and upon the retina of
the eye that once was his, and is now mine, that fearful picture of
my face was fixed, to remain until my death.

I wear a black patch over my left eye. I dare not look upon the
horror that it hides.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

A SHIPBOARD ROMANCE

By Lewis Allen


"Isn't that young Griggs and Miss Deering?" asked the captain,
peering down from the bridge at a dark spot silhouetted against the
moonlit sea.

"Yes, sir," replied the second officer.

"It's the speediest shipboard romance I've ever seen in all my
thirty years aboard a liner," remarked the captain, smiling.

"I understand they never saw or heard of each other until they met
at dinner, Tuesday. Have you talked much with them, sir? I see they
sit next you at table."

"Oh, yes, that's true. Why, on the second dinner out he complained
because there was no jewellery shop aboard. She looked as happy as a
kid with a lollypop, and blushed."

"Whew! Engaged within forty-eight hours! Going some! I suppose
they'll be married by the American consul before they've been ashore
an hour."

"Not a bit of doubt of it," grinned the captain. "True love at sight
in this case, all right. Well, they have my blessings. I fell in
love with my Missus the same way, but we waited three months. I'll
go below. What's she making?"

"Nineteen, sir. Good-night."

                   *       *       *       *       *

Two hours later there came a terrific explosion away down in the
hold amongst the cargo. The ship trembled and listed.

"Women and children first! No danger! Time enough for all!" shouted
the officers, as the frantic passengers surged about the life-boats.

She was going down rapidly by her stern. There came another
explosion, this from the boilers.

"All women and children off?" bellowed the captain.

"Aye, aye, sir," answered the second officer.

"Married men next!" shouted the captain as the men began scrambling
into the boats. A score of men paused, bowed, and stepped back.
Young Griggs tore his way through and started to clamber into the
boat.

"Damn you, for a coward!" cursed the second officer, dragging him
back.

Young Griggs yanked away and again clutched at the boat. This time
the second officer struck him square in the face and he went down.

The boatload of married men was merely cut away, so low was the ship
in the water. Then came a lurch, and the waves closed over the great
ship.

                   *       *       *       *       *

The next evening the Associated Press sent out, from its St. Louis
office, this paragraph:

"Among those lost was H. G. Griggs, junior partner of the Wells &
Griggs Steel Co. He leaves a wife and infant son in this city. It is
feared Mrs. Griggs will not recover from the shock."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE COWARD

By Philip Francis Cook


Johnson stopped at the edge of the clearing and looked carefully at
the hut. A few yards back, where the spring crossed the trail, there
were tracks of a woman's shoe-pack. It was country where one didn't
live long without the habit of noticing things. The tracks were
light, mostly toes, and far apart for so small a foot. Johnson knew
no woman travelled north so fast, into the wilderness, and without a
pack, at that, for diversion, so he had sidestepped from the trail,
silently slipped off his tump-line, and circled to the edge of the
clearing, about a dozen yards from where the trail struck it. There
in the shadow of the pines he searched the clearing with his eyes.
No sign of life.

The door of the hut was shut, but a couple of boards had been
knocked off one of the window openings. The tall grass was trampled
toward the spring. Over to the right was a wreck of a birch, where
some one had been cutting firewood. Nothing especially alarming, but
Johnson was not popular and a few early experiences had made him
cautious. He stood there, silent, for perhaps fifteen minutes,
before he started for the door. There was still no sound, and he
stepped inside, gun in hand.

A rusty little yacht stove, a few shelves, and a rude table were all
the cookroom contained. Beyond was the bunkroom with a large
double-decked bunk against one wall, and opposite it the window.
Johnson went on in.

In the lower bunk lay the body of a man with a hunting knife
sticking in his breast. He lay staring at the ceiling with a rather
silly smile, as though he had been grinning, and death had come too
quickly for it to fade.

"MacNamara---- My God!"

Johnson was unnerved. It was not often that men die by the knife in
the North country. Then a great load seemed to leave his shoulders,
for this dead man had sworn, not three weeks before, to shoot him at
sight--and Johnson was known to be a coward. No more need he sleep
with an eye open, or slip into towns at night. MacNamara, thank God,
was dead.

The dead man's pack was in the other bunk, and scattered around the
room were hairpins, a small rhinestone ring, and a few other
feminine trinkets. "Woman!" said Johnson--and then he saw the note.
It was scrawled on the cover torn from an old magazine. It read:

  "Ed, you'll find this sure. Mac was going to lay for you and pot you
  at the White Rocks. I couldn't find you, so I promised to come here
  to Carmels with him. When he climbed in the bunk I give it to
  him--the damned fool!"

It was unsigned.

The sun was very near the western hilltop. Johnson went to the woods
and returned with his pack; he dropped it near the stove in the
cookroom. Then he burned the note. Next he took a small bag of
parched corn out of his pack and concealed in it the woman's little
things, and put the bag in his shirt. There remained only one thing
to do. Without looking at the dead man's face he drew the knife out
of his breast and forced his own into the wound. The woman's knife
he took to the door and hurled far out into the woods.

There wasn't much daylight left. He closed the door quietly and
started for the trail, north.

"I'll have to hurry," said Johnson.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE HEART OF A BURGLAR

By Jane Dahl


Noiselessly the burglar drew his great bulk through the window,
deposited his kit of tools on the floor, and lowered the sash behind
him. Then he stopped to listen. No sound broke the midnight
stillness. Stealthily he flashed his lantern around the room in
search of objects of value. His quick ear caught the sound of a door
opening and hurried footsteps in the upper hall. Instantly he
adjusted a black mask and sprang behind an open door. Pistol in
hand, every faculty alert, he waited. He heard the soft thud of bare
feet on the padded stairs, then laboured breathing nearby.

As the electric light was switched on, brilliantly illuminating the
room, he gripped his revolver and stepped from behind the door.

"Hands up!" he cried in a hoarse whisper. Then he fell back with a
short, raucous laugh. He was pointing the revolver at a frightened
little mite of a girl shivering before him in her thin, white
nightgown. The small, terrified face touched him strangely, and,
placing his pistol in his pocket, he said, not unkindly:

"There, little girl, don't be so scared--I'm not going to hurt you.
Just you be real still so as not to disturb the others until I get
through and get away, and you shan't be hurt."

The child looked at him much as she would an obstacle in her path,
and attempted to rush past him. He grabbed her and held her tight.

"You little vixen!" he exclaimed. "Didn't I tell you to keep still?"

"But I've got to telephone," gasped the child, struggling to free
herself. "Just let me telephone and then you can do what you like
with me--but I can't wait--I've got to telephone right away." And
she made another effort to reach the telephone on the wall.

Again the burglar laughed. "It's very likely I'll let you telephone
for the police. No, missy, you can't work that on me. I guess I'll
have to tie and gag you after all."

Fresh terror found its way into the child's face, and, for the first
time the burglar realized that he was not the cause of it. She was
not afraid of him. She fought and scratched him like a young
tigress, striving to free herself, and when she realized how
powerless she was in his strong arms she burst into tears.

"Oh! My brother is dying," she cried, "and I want to telephone the
doctor. He has convulsions and mamma doesn't know what to do--and
you won't let me telephone the doctor!"

At the word "convulsions" the burglar went white--his hands fell
nervelessly to his sides--the child was free.

"Call the doctor, quick," he said, placing the child on the chair in
front of the telephone. "What room are they in?"

"End of the hall, upstairs," responded the child, with the receiver
already off the hook.

In three bounds the burglar was up the steps. He made for the light
which shone through a half-open door down the hall, striving to
formulate some explanation to offer the mother for his presence in
the house. When he gently pushed open the door he saw that none was
needed--the woman before him was oblivious to all the world.
Dishevelled and distracted, she sat rocking to and fro, clutching to
her breast the twitching body of a wee boy. Piteously she begged him
not to die--not to leave his poor mummy.

Quietly the burglar came to her side and gently loosened her clasp.

"Give me the baby," he said in a low voice. "He will be better on
the bed."

Dumbly, with unseeing eyes, she looked at him, and surrendered the
child.

"He is dying," she moaned--"dying--oh, my little, little man!"

"No, he's not," said the burglar. But as he looked at the wide-open,
glassy eyes and blue, pinched face of the child he had little faith
in his own words.

He placed the baby upon the bed, and turning to the mother, said in
an authoritative voice:

"You must brace up now and save your child--do you understand? I
can save him, but you must help me, and we must be quick--quick, do
you understand?"

A glimmer of comprehension seemed to penetrate her palsied brain.

"Yes, yes!" she said. "What shall I do?"

"Heat a kettle of water, quick. Bring it in his bathtub--and bring
some mustard, too. Hurry."

Impatiently the mother was off before the last "hurry" was hurled at
her. Now that a ray of hope was offered, and something definite to
do, she was all action.

Reverently the burglar removed the baby's nightrobe, and, covering
the little body with a blanket, he rubbed the legs and arms and back
with his huge hands--very, very gently, for fear their roughness
would irritate the delicate skin.

In a short time the mother was back with the hot mustard bath.
Together they placed the baby in the tub. His little body
relaxed--the glassy eyes closed--he breathed regularly--he was
asleep.

"Thank God," breathed the burglar, fervently, though awkwardly, as
though such words were strange to his lips.

"He is sleeping," cried the mother rapturously. "He will live!"

As the mother was drying the little body with soft towels the
burglar said brokenly:

"I had a little boy once--about his size--two years old. He died
in convulsions because his mother didn't know what to do and the
doctor didn't get there in time."

A sob of ready sympathy came from the heart of the woman.

"And his poor mother?" she asked. "Where is she?"

"She soon followed--she seemed to think the little fellow would
need her over there," he replied in a tear-choked voice.

Half ashamed, he ran his sleeve across his eyes to remove the
moisture there. The woman's tears splashed on the quietly sleeping
infant in her lap.

Both were startled by the clamorous ringing of the doorbell.

"The doctor!" cried the man, suddenly brought to a realization of
his position.

The woman looked at him, and for the first time she really saw him;
for the first time the strangeness of an unknown man in the house in
the middle of the night was apparent to her. From his face her
glance wandered to the chair where the burglar had thrown his mask
and tools.

"Yes," he said, answering her look, "I'm a burglar. I heard your
husband was out of town, and I came to rob you. You can call the
police, now."

"No," the woman interrupted. "Go into the next room and wait until
the doctor leaves. I want to help you to a better way of living than
this, if I can."

After the doctor had departed the woman went into the next room. The
burglar was not there. Going downstairs she found the drawers
ransacked and all her valuables gone. On the table was a scrap of
paper. On it was written:

  "Thank you, madam, for your offer, but I'm used to this life now
  and don't want to change."

The woman thought of the sleeping baby upstairs, and a tender smile
came to her lips. That robbery was not reported to the police.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE REWARD

By Herbert Heron


No one knew just how popular Cobbe was till Dick Walling shot him.
It was Cobbe's fault, but Walling didn't wait to explain. Like
others, he didn't know the degree of the deceased's popularity but
he had a fair idea, and left Monterey as fast as his horse could
take him. The animal was the speediest in the county.

He stopped at Parl's on his way up the valley. Parl greeted him
cordially. For half an hour they talked. The 'phone rang.

"That's for me. I told Cobbe I'd stop here," and with that Walling
took down the receiver.

"Hello! This Mr. Parl's. Oh, yes, you want me. What? Well, I'm
damned! Not a sign. I'll watch. Sure. What? How much? Whew!" He
ended in a long whistle, and hung up.

"I'll be sliding along now." He shook hands, mounted, and rode
toward Monterey till Parl shut the door. Then he circled, and went
on up the valley. A thousand dollars reward, dead or alive! He knew
now how popular Cobbe was.

They hadn't even waited till the sheriff had failed to get him.

There are few ranches above Parl's, and these have no telephones, so
he rode by, unconcerned. Toward midnight he came to a place owned by
a girl and her brother. He had loved the girl, but decided that she
didn't care for him. The brother liked him, though, and he could get
some food for his stay in the mountains till things quieted down and
he could leave the country.

The brother came to the door, pale and troubled. "He can't have
heard----" The thought was dispelled by the sudden relief on the
boy's face.

"Thank God, it's you, Dick! Mary's dying, and----" Walling
followed him into the room where the girl lay, high in fever. "I
couldn't leave her alone, to get the doctor, but now you can
go----" Something in Walling's manner stopped him. "I'll go, and
you can stay with her. Are you on Firefly? I'll take him. It'll be
quicker." Before Walling could think what to say, the boy was gone.
He went to call him back. The girl moaned. What could he do? He
couldn't refuse this duty fallen on him from the sky, even if the
girl were a stranger; and this was the woman he loved, ... but she
was dying.

"Dick!... Oh, Dick!... Dick!..." The voice from the bed startled
him. He went softly over to see what she wanted. In her eyes there
was no recognition: she had spoken in delirium.

She loved him! But the rush of joy was swept away by the sight of
her suffering. He bathed her face and hands. By and by the fever
seemed less. She passed into a light sleep.

He made some coffee. While he drank it he had time to think of
himself. When the doctor came from Monterey.... The doctor would
know, and....

"I must clear out when I hear them coming." Then another thought
forced its way in: "Go now, while you've still a good lead. Go now!"

He went to the stable, saddled a horse, and led him out. Then the
face of the girl came over him. He left the horse tied to the gate,
and went back. She was sleeping still, but brokenly. He couldn't go.

It was a two hours' ride to Parl's, where the boy could 'phone....
If the doctor left Monterey immediately, he'd get to the house about
five. It was now nearly two.

The girl slept. Walling knew it was the critical time. If she woke
better, she would probably recover. The thought was sweet to him. If
she went again into delirium.... He sat still, thinking. The hours
passed very slowly.

Suddenly Walling heard a step outside. He had heard no horse coming.
He looked out cautiously and saw four men with rifles. Walling
cocked his revolver, took down the boy's rifle from the wall and
loaded it. He could account for some--and those who were left might
depart. It would be a battle, anyway. There was no use being taken
alive. Better be shot than hanged.

The leader made a signal. Walling raised his gun. And then--Mary
stirred. Her battle, like his, was still undecided. If she slept on,
and woke refreshed, she would get well. If not....

Walling laid down his rifle and stepped outside. The men covered
him. As he was taken down the road to the waiting horses, the doctor
and the girl's brother drove up.

"She's asleep," said Walling.

The boy showed no surprise--he had heard the story from the
doctor--but his voice was pitiful:

"Why didn't you?... I didn't know.... Oh, my God! ... and you
stayed ... when you could have got away!" He turned to the men with
a hopeless look. "It's my fault!" he cried. "He stayed with my
sister. I thought she was dying. He didn't tell me he _couldn't_
stay! He'd be safe in the mountains by now.... Oh, my God!"

The leader glanced at his companions. They were stern men, but they
were moving uneasily. The situation was unbearable.

"How long have you been here?"

"Since about midnight," answered Walling, though he couldn't see
what difference it made. The leader took out his watch.

"Twelve minutes past five now. Say, we've been twelve minutes
getting you, that leaves five hours. We'll stay here and rest our
horses. At twelve minutes past ten we'll start again. That suit you,
boys?"

"What do you mean?" asked Walling.

"I mean you still have your five hours' start; you haven't lost
anything by staying with the sick girl."

Walling went back to the house. Mary was still sleeping. He touched
her hand. It seemed cooler.

"Tell her I'll write--if I can."

"Good-bye," said the boy.

As he went out Walling saw the men unsaddling their horses. He took
off his hat to them as he rode away into the mountains.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE FIRST GIRL

By Louise Pond Jewell


They had been talking of the Marsdens, who had just gone down with
the torpedoed ship; and among the kindly and affectionate things
said about them, the exceptional happiness of their married life was
mentioned. Some one spoke of this as being rather surprising, as
they had married so late in life; then, naturally enough, another
remarked what a different world it would be if every man had been
accepted by the first girl he had proposed to. And he added, that
sometimes he thought that first choice was one of truer instinct,
less tinctured with the world's sophistication than any later one.
The bachelor contributed with a laugh that that first girl had one
advantage over the wife, no matter how perfect the latter--that she
remained the ideal. And then, little by little, they came to the
point of agreeing to tell, then and there, in the elegance and
dignity of the clubroom suited to the indulgence of their late
middle years, each one about that first girl, and what she had meant
to him.

The Explorer began.

"I met her in the Adirondacks, and knew her only one summer. After
that, I couldn't see her just as a friend--and she was unwilling to
be anything else to me. So, all my life, I've associated her with
the woods and lakes, with the sincerity and wholesomeness of the
great Outdoors. She had the freedom of Diana, and her lack of
self-consciousness. I never saw her except roughly clad, but she
always suggested that line of Virgil--'She walked the goddess.'

"She was strong and lithe as a boy, could climb mountains, row, play
golf and tennis with any of us; and what a good sport. She never
fussed over getting caught in drenching rains, being bruised and
torn by rocks and thorns; and once when a small party of us lost our
way, and had to spend the night on a lonely mountainside within
sound of wolves and catamounts, her gayety made a 'lark' of it. She
could drive horses with a man's steady hands; she knew the birds by
name, and all the plants and trees that grew within miles, and she
was familiar with the tracks and habits of all the small creatures
of the forest. To me she was--simply wonderful, and, I confess,
always has been."

"What became of her?" they asked.

"Later, she married--a man who didn't know a pine from a palm! I
always wondered...."

The Diplomat came next.

"That sort," he said, "is a little too independent and upstanding to
belong to my type of woman. The rough, tanned skin, the strong,
capable hands--big, probably--the woolen skirt and
blouse--they'll do very well in a girl chum, for a summer. But when
it comes to a _wife_, one's demands are different. The girl I wanted
first--and I've never forgotten her; she was a queen--I knew
during my first winter in Washington. You talk of Diana; I prefer
Venus--wholly feminine, but never cloying. She was the kind that
looks best in thin, clinging things. I remember yet a shimmering
green and silver 'creation' she wore at the Inaugural Ball. She
didn't take hikes with me through scratchy forests, but she'd dance
all night long, and her little feet would never tire. She didn't
handle guns or tillers, but you should have seen her pretty fingers
deftly managing the tea things in a drawing-room, of a winter's
afternoon, or playing soft, enchanting airs on the piano at
twilight; or, for the matter of that, placing a carnation in a man's
button-hole--I can feel her doing it yet! She probably didn't know
birds, but, by George! she knew men! And there wasn't one of us
young fellows that winter that wouldn't gladly have had her snare
him. Only--that was the one thing she didn't do!"

"Didn't she ever do any snaring?"

"Oh--finally. And--the pity of it!--a man who couldn't dance, and
had no use for Society! Sometimes...."

"How about you?" the third member of the group was asked, an
Engineer of national reputation. "Was there a first best girl for
you, too?"

"Guilty!" he replied. "But my account will sound prosaic after these
others. You know, my early days weren't given to expensive summer
camps, nor to Washington ballrooms. I made my own way through
college, and 'vacations' meant the hardest work of the year. But
when I was a Senior, all the drudgery was transformed. Paradise
wouldn't have been in it with that little co-educational college
campus and library and chapel and classrooms; for I found _her_.
Just a classmate she was. You tell how your girls dressed; I never
noticed how _she_ dressed; it might have been in shimmering green
and silver, and it might have been in linsey-woolsey, for all I
knew. But--she could _think_, and she could _talk_! We discussed
everything together, from philosophy and the evolution of history to
the affairs of the day. I spent every hour with her that I could,
and in all sorts of places. There's a spot in the stackroom of the
old library that I always visit yet, when I go back--because of
her. I've never known a woman since with such a mind, such breadth
and clearness; and it showed in her face--the face of Athena, not
Diana or Venus! I believed that with such a companion at my side, to
turn to in every perplexity, I could make my life worth while. But
she--saw it differently."

"Is she a feminist now?" slyly inquired the Explorer.

"She, too, married, after a while--a fine fellow, but--anything
but a student. I can't help...."

"Mine," said the fourth, the Socialist, "will sound least dramatic
of all--though I assure you the time was dramatic enough for me.
You talk about your goddesses; my pedestal held just a sweet human
girl,--a nurse, serving her first year at the hospital, that time
we had the smash-up in '80. And you talk of beauty, and style, and
brain; but with me it isn't of a pretty face or graceful form I
think when I recall that magic time; and least of all is it of any
intellectual prowess. I'm not sure whether she knew the difference
between physics and metaphysics, or whether she'd ever heard of a
cosine. But she was endowed with the charm of charms in a
woman--sympathy. She would listen by the hour while I poured out to
her my young hopes and ambitions; I could tell her all the dreams a
young fellow cherishes most deeply--and would die of mortification
if even his best friend guessed at their existence. She always
understood; and though she talked little herself, she had the effect
of making me appear at my very best. I felt I could move the world
if she would just stand by and watch. But in spite of her kindness
and gentleness she turned me down. Many times I've questioned...."

"That was all right for a sick boy," commented the Diplomat, "but
for a _wife_, a girl like Alison----"

"'Alison,'" echoed the Engineer, involuntarily, "a nice name,
anyway; that was _her_ name."

"Why----" the Explorer mused--"that's an odd coincidence; so was
_hers_--Alison Forbes."

"Alison Forbes"--breathed the Socialist--"Alison
Forbes--Marsden!"

And suddenly there was a silence, and the four friends looked
strangely at one another. For they knew in that moment that there
had been in those lives of theirs left far behind, not four first
girls, but one--seen with different eyes.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

A SOPHISTRY OF ART

By Eugene Smith


On the station platform in Quanah, one morning, I stopped "waiting
for the train" for a moment to watch a man and woman painting on a
large signboard across the way. The inevitable wiseacre in the
little group of travelling men explained that they were really
talented artists, a man and wife.

The husband had contracted--er--a throat affection in their studio
back East, and physicians had ordered him to the open air and high,
dry altitude of west Texas. So they had come, and were earning
expenses, making a series of paintings on signboards, advertisements
of a lumber corporation, throughout the Panhandle country.

I walked out across the tracks near where the slightly stooped
husband, in overalls, and his little wife, looking very attractive
in her neat apron and sunbonnet, were at work.

There was a pathos about the thing that went straight to my heart.
The loyal little woman and the stricken husband there in the clear,
crisp morning air and sunshine, earnestly striving, undismayed.
Something--a common sympathy--thrilled me.

And now the painting seemed artistic. The general idea was a lovely
cottage home (built, of course, with Oakley's lumber, as was
intimated). But the cottage was not glaringly new--rather mellowed
a bit with time, it seemed, and was the more homelike for it.

In the front stood a sweet little woman, looking down a winding
road, and in the expression on her face, painted by the real little
woman, was joyous hope--almost certainty--of seeing the husband
coming down the road to her and home, after his day's work.

The colours of sunset added to the beauty of the conception, which
altogether made desirable the having such a little wife to wait for
one each evening at such a little cottage home. And that was the
purpose of it; when you thought of home-building, you also thought
of Oakley's lumber.

The painters were happy in their work--happy as two birds building
a nest. The wife, seated on her little stepladder, with palette and
brushes, was deftly pointing up the vines about the windows, as all
good wives should. She hummed something of a tune, now and then
looking gayly down at him, who laughed back up at her from his work
on the winding road and distant trees.

A courteous inquiry and my being an Easterner, was a passport into
their confidences. "We only paint a little while in the cool of the
morning and afternoon of each day," he was saying to my remarks on
the weather. "It's dangerous to lay on much paint at a time," he
continued, "for the sand ruins it."

"Oh, if it wasn't for the sand storms!" she chimed in. "But we love
the country, and the folks, too; they seem so much a part of the out
of doors, you know. Though we hope--we expect--to go back home
before long." She was looking fondly down at him.

"I had a little trouble with my throat," he explained
depreciatively. "But this western air has just about put me in the
running again. It's wonderful." I could see the thankfulness in his
eyes, as he smiled up at his companion. I didn't blame him for
loving life.

In the smoking-car of the belated train we travelling men discussed
the case of the painters.

"It's only his throat that bothers him a bit," I denied with some
heat. "Besides, he is nearly recovered, and looks it."

"Yes, I know; that's characteristic. It's what they all say when
they begin to perk up in a change of climate," persisted the
Pessimist in the crowd. "But the average is 100 to 1 against them.
I've seen too many lungers out here in this country."

Damn a Pessimist with his statistics, anyhow!

                   *       *       *       *       *

Several months later I made another trip through the Texas Panhandle
country, and at each town going up from Quanah toward Amarillo I saw
one of the Oakley lumber advertisements prominently displayed on
large bill-boards. They were all the same, like the first one; that
is, if your glance was but a passing one. But to me, who had grown
interested in Art and things artistic, there was a difference in the
paintings. Yes, a difference! I wasn't so sure at first. "It's just
imagination," I pooh-poohed the idea. But later on----

Anyhow, I soon found myself going directly from the station, on each
arrival, to look up the Oakley bill-board. It was never hard to
find. Somehow, I just got to wondering--worrying--about the
welfare of the young husband, the artist, I had met.

In the first few of the paintings I found portrayed all the life and
glad hope and expectancy that I had seen some time before in the one
at Quanah.

Then came the inevitable. Strange as it was, I knew that I had been
expecting--dreading--it; though rather in the gossip around the
hotels than in the pictures themselves, where I really found it.
That was the only surprise.

I remember, in Clarendon--the first town after you get up on the
Cap-rock of the Staked Plains--there I saw--or imagined--it
first. One is ever instinctively wary of eyesight in that land of
mirages.

And in each succeeding village and town as I travelled westward and
upward, I felt it--saw it--there on the bill-boards, as if painted
in half-unconsciously by the artist: a faint trace of querulous
doubt in the face of the little, waiting wife, spirit of melancholia
lying dull in the picture.

As I was getting out of Goodnight one afternoon--a little ahead of
time--in the automobile that daily makes the round trip to Claude,
we drove past the Oakley signboard. I was in a hurry to get on to
Claude to see the trade before night, and be ready to leave for
Amarillo the next morning. But forgetting all this at the sight of
the picture on the bill-board, I asked the chauffeur to stop a
minute before it.

She was still smiling, the little wife waiting there in front of
their home for her husband's return, but the smile was hollow and
lifeless. I knew--could see--she was full of uneasiness and dread,
and was only smiling to keep up her courage.

"That's quite a lumber advertisement--there," I ventured. The
chauffeur was drinking water from the canvas canteen.

"Uh-huh!" he gulped. "I seen 'em painting it."

"A man and woman?"

"Well, yes; but the woman did most of it. I saw her there every day
for some time. Once in a while the man--her husband, I
guess--would be tryin' to help paint, but he was all in. You could
tell it, the way he looked."

I winced at his words. So here it was, confirmed, what I had been
hoping was only imagination. Confound that Pessimist!

"They must have painted a good many of these signs; I see them
everywhere," I continued, in a disinterested manner.

"There's another'n over at Claude," yawned the chauffeur. "I think I
remember hauling them people over in the car."

"Over to Claude?"

"Yes--I fergit. I never pay much attention to the folks I haul," he
remarked casually, eying me in a bored way.

Then we drove on.

A day later I arrived in Amarillo from Claude, glad, for it was my
trip's end. I started walking uptown from the station to stretch my
legs, besides--well, there across the street, on a vacant lot, was
the Oakley bill-board, and the picture. The late afternoon sunlight
fell full across it.

I looked at the woman in the picture, whom I had come to know for
the real little wife, the artist, painting from her heart. She stood
smiling, but behind the smile I read doubt and dread realized, and
hope--almost--dying hard. For the smile was but a poor attempt,
and the joyous expectancy I saw shining in her eyes months before at
Quanah was not there now. There was a subtle air of unmistakable
despair about her. Her very frailty and dependency and loyal effort
to keep her smile wrung from me a quick sympathy.

I turned back to the drab routine of life sadly, and picking up my
grips, saw the Pessimist standing on the sidewalk with his
detestable knowing look. There behind him came the Wiseacre. It was
one of those little coincidences of a drummer's life which so often
find the same parties together again.

"I was just looking at another one of the pictures--the last one, I
guess," I said suddenly, feeling unashamed of my concern and
sadness.

"Last one!" exclaimed the Wiseacre, full of ready information. "Why,
man! That's their _first_ one. Here's where they began last year. I
saw them in St. Paul three weeks ago, happy as wrens."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE MESSAGE IN THE AIR

By B. R. Stevens


The typewriters were clicking busily in the place. Every one seemed
honestly, industriously at work.

Looking out of the aperture prepared for the purpose, Lance Allison
saw nothing suspicious. Yet Monsieur the General had been so sure
that information was leaking, in some mysterious way, from this very
room.

Lance had been surprised that the fame of an American detective
should have made any impression in France: more surprised when the
General, on learning his identity, had personally solicited his aid.

Sitting with ears as well as eyes alert, his quick brain began to
dissociate the sound of the typewriters one from another.

That tall girl in black--the one with the pale, pale face, he
amended in his thought, so many, alas! were in black--that girl
wrote with an even monotony in consonance with her expressionless
countenance.

The pert little lass in blue seemed to write each word with an
emphasis, for her spacing was noticeable each time.

And so it went, each typist showing some marked peculiarity as his
ear picked out the particular rhythm.

His examination had reached the last one, and for the first time he
observed its operator closely.... Something familiar and different
about that girl.... Not her clothes, nor her coiffure--nothing he
could put a finger on.

Then he caught the click of her machine. Different from any of the
others, it seemed to jerk out the words and syllables with amazing
irregularity, dwelling on one letter, slighting another, pausing
between. Here, too, was something hauntingly familiar.

In the meantime men came and went, and Lance's watchful eye followed
the slightest movement made by each newcomer. At any moment some
signal might give him a clue to the disclosures which the General
declared seemed to be made daily.

A timid country lad entered, wiping the dew of embarrassment from
his brow. After some awkward hesitation he conferred with one of the
clerks, evidently stumbling and halting in his inquiries.

No word of the colloquy reached Lance's ear, but he suddenly became
aware of a message in the air--clear, deliberate, reiterated!

_Fifty thousand English left Paris this morning. Destination,
Arras._

An hour later the girl who somehow seemed different was confronted
in the private quarters of Monsieur the General by Lance Allison,
American detective. Bright-eyed and defiant, she smouldered under
the guard's restraint.

"You are an American!" There was curt reproach in the detective's
tone.

"Well, what of that?" she snapped.

"How came _you_ a traitor to the Allies?"

Then, as she did not answer, he bowed to Monsieur the General. "This
girl gave out her information to a young clod-hopper to-day. More
than likely some other one yesterday and the day before, or to him
in a different disguise. At any rate, they were men who could spell
English--or American," he added whimsically.

"But how? How, Monsieur le detective? He approached her not--nor
even looked toward her."

"No," smiled Lance, "but he had his ear cocked in her direction." He
turned to the seething girl. "Now, make a clean breast of it, Miss.
You are done for. What evil spirit prompted treachery in one born
under the Stars and Stripes?"

Suddenly the smouldering fire burst into the flame of speech.

"'Twas Jean Armand, the low-down dog! Pretended to love me--_me_!
Kissed me--took my hard-earned money for his own comfort. And
then--the day he went to the front--he married Elise, a stupid,
wax-faced doll!... _Then_ I swore to betray France as he had
betrayed me--and I have done it."

"But how?" The General's question was addressed to the detective.

"By the clicks of her typewriter, Monsieur. She practised a peculiar
jerky touch so that it would become unnoted. Then when a spy came
in--was the hand on the heated brow the signal, I wonder?--she
talked to him by the dots and dashes of the Morse code with as much
clearness as if the words were breathed into his ear."

"Yes, and it took an American to find me out," she glowed with
strange exultation. "These conceited Frenchies were all at sea....
_And_--Jean, the husband of the fat Elise, fell yesterday under a
charge from troops I sent to meet his regiment--so--I don't care
what you do to me, now. My work is done!"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

IN A GARDEN

By Catherine Runscomb


Dick Halcomb stood waiting on the shady station platform. A little
groom appeared, suddenly and breathlessly.

"Sorry to be late, sir," he gasped. "Mrs. Paige and Miss Laura have
gone to Mrs. Vingut's garden party, and left word for you to join
them."

"Damn!" muttered Halcomb. He had had a hard day in the city, and
felt quite unequal to dragging himself about, wilted and irritated,
any longer. Really, he considered, settling back into the motor, he
was getting pretty fed up with this insatiable lust of Laura's. He
wondered whether, when they were married and she was away from her
mother, he would be able to instil in her a more normal enjoyment of
her pleasures. He thought, vaguely, of not going after all--of
awaiting them at the house. But a vision rose before him of Laura
all evening wrapped in her delicate fury of aloofness, something too
inhumanly polite to be called sulking, but of shattering import to
nerves on edge--and he decided grimly that he was too hot, too
tired. In the last analysis it was less trouble to go to the garden
party.

By this time they were humming smoothly up to the Vinguts' gates.
The breeze had cooled the heat of his brow, but his thoughts were
growing only more feverish with the passing moments. He halted the
chauffeur suddenly: "Let me out here, Lane. I'll walk up to the
house--I need exercise."

It was pleasant to stroll along the driveway, to stretch his cramped
limbs, and absorb at leisure the careful beauties of the land about
him. The lonely graciousness of tall poplar trees, the low-flowering
crimson of rhododendrons ministered gratefully to his troubled soul.
New satisfaction filled him as he discovered no people in sight.
They must be the other side of the house, on the terraces, he
thought, restfully. And then, suddenly, he stopped short, staring.

Just ahead in a clearing was an old Italian fountain, gray stone,
carved and mellowed by the centuries, water splashing musically into
its basin. Sitting on the edge was a tall young girl, the adolescent
grace of her body showing clear and white through the classic
scantness of her shell-pink draperies. Diana herself she might have
been, nymph-robed and formed, her chestnut hair bound about by a
silver fillet, her long, white legs, uncovered, dangling in the
water. He felt a wild certainty that if he spoke she would melt away
into the spray of the fountain. And then she turned her head and saw
him.

"You are late," she said, in a very clear, low voice that merged
into the plashing water.

"Yes--I am late," he stammered. "I wonder ... who you are?"

She stared into his eyes with the deep, unconscious gravity of a
child.

"I am Athena," she answered simply.

"Athena!" he gasped. "Good heavens! Then you _are_ a goddess--or a
nymph----"

She laughed--and her laughter sounded in his ear more like the
fountain than the fountain itself.

"Oh, no," she reassured him. "We all have Greek names because they
are more beautiful."

"'We all'!... Good lord, child, who _are_ you?"

"Why--I am Athena--one of the Morris Dancers. We came to do our
Spring Dance for the party."

How absurdly simple, he thought. And yet how insufficiently it
explained the wonder of her.

"Why are you here--alone?" he went on. He could do nothing but
question her. He had to get to the bottom of her, somehow.

"We're through dancing--and the people tired me."

He sat down on the edge of the fountain, and she moved up beside
him, touching him, a divine friendliness in her deep blue eyes.

"How did they tire you--child?" he asked her gently.

"They are all so artificial--and so conscious. We are taught how
terrible this consciousness of self and sex is. Hellena Morris
teaches us that woman is only really beautiful, really strong, when
she is quite unconscious and unstudied."

He eyed the grave little lecturer amusedly.

"Do you understand all that--Athena?" he ventured.

"Why, yes," she said. "We are all very intelligent. It's the
wholesome life we lead and the perfection of our bodies."

He threw back his head and laughed.

"I like you when you laugh," she told him suddenly. "I like you to
throw your head back, and the kind little crinkles round your eyes.
When you are not laughing you look so tired."

"I am tired," he admitted; "tired and disillusioned most of the
time. Perhaps it's my unwholesome life and imperfect body----"

He watched her, glowing with unreasoning pleasure at her laugh.

"Humour, too!" he cried. "Child, you are wonderful! Tell me about
yourself ... everything. I must know the magic that evolved such
perfection."

"Give me your hand," she said. "There!... Now you can understand me
better.

"There isn't much to tell. I am seventeen, and have lived with
Hellena since I was eight. There are twenty of us. She teaches us
... wonderful things. Not hideous 'accomplishments,' but _real_
things that will help us--Greek and Latin, and the care of our
bodies, and the worship of beauty. We all dance, and sing, and play
... and we paint, and write verse, and translate the classics, and
read to each other. And we are very strong and hardy, because of our
simple lives.... We can beat men at their own games, although we
are so slight. We wear few clothes--nothing to restrain or
disfigure us. And when we dance we don't learn special steps; we
express in ourselves whatever we are dancing--Sorrow, or Love, or
Spring. See, I will do you part of our Spring Dance."

She drew her white, dripping legs from the fountain and danced
before him--a thing so light and delicate, so breeze-blown and
whimsical, so altogether lovely, that his distrust of her humanity
returned to him unbearably.

She stopped--a sudden flush of rose and gleam of white--and
dropped by his side again.

"And every night," she went on, as though there had been no
interruption, "we say our creed: 'I believe in beauty--all the
beauty that ever has been and ever will be in the world. And I will
worship and serve it with the highest there is in me--always.'"

He could not speak at first. Then finally, unevenly: "I can't
presume to praise your theory of life, Athena--any more than I
could your dancing. Thank you for them both."

She put her hand on his knee, looking at him, whitely, a little
wildly.

"What is your name?" she asked.

"Dick," he answered, as simply as she had told him hers.

"I should like to marry you--Dick."

He stared at her.

"So you include marriage--in your scheme of life?" he said dully.

"Yes. Hellena says our marriage laws are terrible, but, while there
is no substitute, if we love terribly it is right to marry. I want
to marry you, Dick--to be with you always, and take the tired look
away from your eyes."

"Child!" he cried. "You don't know me!"

"It doesn't matter," she told him quaintly. "Love often comes this
way."

He took her hand against his cheek.

"Dear," he said, "I am thirty-five--a pretty world-stained and
world-weary creature. Your radiant youth was given you for a better
man than I."

"I love _you_, Dick, I have never loved before."

"Athena, I am ... going to marry ... some one else."

She trembled against him.

"Some one you _love_?" she cried. "Dick, some one you love as you
could love me? Is she as young and beautiful? Could she amuse you,
and care for you, and adore you always--_always_, as I would?"

"Athena," he said slowly, "there is no one like you ... in the
world. I love this ... other girl in my own way. Not as you should
be loved, but I'm not fit for such love as that. I can't marry you.
Athena--dear--don't make it too hard."

She sat, silent.

Then: "Dick--would you--kiss me?"

He took her gently in his arms.

In the distance people were moving. There was a rustle and a
chatter. He let her go suddenly.

"Good-bye--dear," he said.

"Good-bye--Dick," she answered dully.

Once he turned back and saw her--drooping, rose-white, against the
old gray fountain.

                   *       *       *       *       *

From the gay group ahead Laura detached herself, ruffled and
fluttering.

"You're late enough," she greeted him.

"Yes," he said. Then, with an effort: "Have you seen the--Morris
Dancers?"

"Oh, yes; we all did. I think they're rather disgusting--so few
clothes and so much throwing themselves about; don't you?"

"You forget," he answered slowly, "that I have just arrived."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

A CLEVER CATCH

By Lloyd F. Loux


She was a thief, and he knew it. He had followed her in her travels,
where she posed as a saleswoman. At various times he had thought to
capture her, but she evaded him. He feared he had too little
evidence, and she was so wily and so clever.

When he saw her sun-kissed hair and inviting lips, he felt abashed
to think of associating crime with her, and so he waited for more
conclusive evidence. He wished to be sure. How embarrassing it would
be to accuse her and then find her innocent!

And yet--he knew she was dangerous. Then one day he realized
something odd. He had been robbed! _He_, the cleverest detective on
the force, had been robbed! Yes, it was hard to realize. And by the
very woman he was seeking to capture. Yes, he knew _she_ must have
done it.

Now he would bring her to justice! But how? He had no actual
evidence more than his own conviction. Ah, yes! He would put on a
bold front and bluff her. Yes, bluff her! How happy he felt. Why,
after he had made this capture he would be the proudest man on the
force. And he could have the satisfaction of saying he had wrung the
confession from her. So he togged up and put on a bold front and a
wise air and started out. But suppose she suspected his bluff? Oh,
horrors! Imagine his chagrin. The wisest man on the force, and made
a plaything of by a baby of a woman! But he was started, and only
cowards turn back. Suffice it for us to know that he succeeded and
escorted her to the nearest magistrate's office, and she confessed!
Yes, and he had the satisfaction of hearing her take oath to the
confession. Then the magistrate appointed him to be her keeper for
life.

The case was closed with the best wishes of the magistrate.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

STRICTLY BUSINESS

By Lincoln Steffens


"There's an extra, a Christmas girl downstairs, that I think you'll
want to keep; she's a worker, but----"

The big store manager looked up at the tall, prim New England woman
who was the head of his employment bureau, and he understood. But
he's a brute.

"But?" he insisted.

"Her references aren't good."

"Not good?" he said. "You mean they ain't good people?"

"Oh," she exclaimed, "they're good people; they're very good people,
but----"

"But?"

"They prefer not to speak, for or against."

"I see," he growled. "A case for bad people. Send her up to me."

And up came the case, another Puritan, slim, alive, afire.

"I know," she began, "I know what you're going to say; every word of
it. I'm fired, but, first, I must hear a lecture; the same old
lecture. So fire away, but cut it short."

"Won't you be seated?" he said politely.

"Thanks," she mocked.

He rose, and, with a chivalrous bow, begged her to "Please be
seated."

"No," she declared decidedly, "I'll take it standing, so I can get
out if I don't like----"

"Sit down," he bellowed.

She sat.

He stood glaring at her. "Think I'd let you stand there lecturing
and judging me?" he growled. And he lectured and judged her. Then
he, too, sat.

"How do you know what I was going to say?" he demanded.

"Because you all say the same thing," she flashed; "everywhere I
work. They tell me I'm bad, so I'm discharged, but they all give me
that lecture on how to be good--out of a job." She named places she
had worked: stores where the managers and the conditions were
notorious. "They gave it to me at Freeman's," she sneered, "and,"
she jeered, "at the One Price Stores! Everywhere I get it, and not
only from you bosses. I see the other girls catch on to my story,
and, with looks at me, pass it on. 'Poor Thing,' they whisper and,
then, of course, the Poor Thing is fired."

She didn't look like a Poor Thing. She looked like a very Brave
Thing to this manager of women, but he felt, with his man's
intuition, the despair that was washing her courage away. So he was
kind.

"How old is the child?" he asked brutally.

"Five."

"Who takes care of it while you're at work?"

"Mother."

"And you support all three?"

"Yes, and," she blazed, "you needn't worry about that. You fire
away. I'll make out, somehow. Only don't, don't tell me I'm bad
again. I know that, too. Don't I tell it to myself every hour, every
day, and, if I forget it for one little hour, doesn't some one
remind me?"

He was afraid she'd break, and he didn't want her to; not her. "Too
proud, too brave."

"You needn't worry about me, either," he said. "This is a business
house, strictly business. No sentiment, and no scruples. We're here
to make money, and we're on the lookout for women who'll work and
work hard for us. We don't mind a little thing like a little child.
Fact is, a little----"

She was lifting from her chair.

"Which is it," he asked roughly, "a boy, or----?"

"A girl," she said, and she dropped back.

"The fact is," he resumed, "a little girl at home makes the mother
work harder in the store. And that's the report on you. They say
you're a hard worker, so I'd like to keep you on, regular, for
life."

She lifted again.

"But----" he said.

"But," she collapsed.

"I don't see," he said, "how you can work hard, regular, if you go
on telling yourself that lie every hour, every day; that you're
bad."

He got up, huffily. "How bad are you, anyway? How good you been
since--during the last five years?"

"As good as I was before," she blazed, springing to her feet.

"Um-m," he calculated. "I'll bet you are, and I'll bet that's pretty
good. Good enough for us. We ain't so awfully good ourselves. Quick
sales, small profits, and satisfied customers--lots of 'em. That's
what we call good."

She was reaching for him again, with hands, with eyes.

"But," he struck, "you can't do much for us and the little girl if
you're afraid every hour, every day, that you'll be found out and
fired. We got to cut out fear."

"You mean?" she gasped.

"I mean," he thundered, "I mean that you got to cut out that
every-hour-every-day business. See? It's rot, anyhow. You're as good
as anybody, and if anybody here says you ain't, you come to me and
I'll tell 'em this is a women's business, run for profit; and women;
including mothers; women, children, and--money. Y'on?"

She stood there staring; comprehending, and he felt that she wanted
to break, but----

"Now, now, none o' that," the brute commanded. "Not here. This is
business, strictly business. You get back on your job. D'y' hear?"

Yes, she nodded; she heard, and she bolted for the door, but as she
opened it she turned and she broke:

"God, how I will work! How I will----"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE ADVENT OF THE MAJORITY

By Stella Wynne Herron


Colonel Scipio Breckenbridge stopped polishing the lighthouse lamp
and stared out across Lone Palm Key to where the blazing yellow sand
met the dark blue waters of the Gulf. Yes--there they were again,
hobnobbing on the beach--the alien Higgins, his face a beef red
from alcohol within and the tropic sun without, stretched prone, the
breeze flapping his loose sailor's pants around his skinny
ankles--the Captain erecting a tarpaulin tent against the day of
the great four-yearly event, the presidential election.

Yes, indeed. Make no mistake. Lone Palm Key _is_ a part of the
United States. This speck of an island that flips up out of the Gulf
like the tip end of a fish's tail is listed as the sixty-sixth
precinct of Florida. For twenty years now the Colonel had
religiously cast one vote for the Democratic candidate; the Captain,
one for the Republican candidate. For twenty years--the Captain and
the Colonel being the entire population--the sixty-sixth had split
fifty-fifty--and for twenty years both had cherished the secret
hope of one day carrying it.

Mr. Higgins had drifted into Lone Palm--literally--on a hatch top
of the ill-fated _Petrel_ two months before, and it was not long
before his lamentable failing made itself manifest. Mr. Higgins was
unhappy unless drunk. When his entertainment ceased, and it looked
as if, through sheer thirst, he would have to consent to be taken to
Key West with the Captain's next cargo of sponges--non-human--he
had discovered a cast-up keg of whiskey. Such an act of Providence
almost restored his waning faith in God. But, alas! for an acrid
week now the sacred fount had been dry. This time he would surely be
frozen out---- But, now, here was the Captain encouragingly
friendly, almost chummy, with him----

The Colonel strode across to the recumbent Higgins, and touched him
with his foot.

"Higgins," he asked, "do yo' reckon to vote on Lone Palm this
election?"

"I 'ave that intention," replied Mr. Higgins gently.

"Are yo'--Republican or--Democrat?" The Colonel's voice trembled
in spite of himself.

"I 'aven't decided--yet," and Mr. Higgins let his gaze drift again
skyward.

The Colonel met the Captain's perfidious eyes across the prostrate
form of the potential majority. In that silent glance there was a
declaration of bloody war.

From that moment began the Golden Age on Lone Palm for Mr. Higgins.
With flattering frequency he drank healths to the Grand Old Party,
then to the party "that gave birth to Andrew Jackson and Thomas
Jefferson, sah!"

But no maiden, pressed by two suitors, was ever more coy in avowing
a choice than he.

A week before election the Captain's and the Colonel's liquor ran
out. Mr. Higgins, to his horror, began to get sober. The day before
election the Captain and his sloop disappeared. The Colonel did not
wait to investigate. He also hoisted sail for Key West. That night
both the Captain and the Colonel unloaded mysterious cargoes. At
midnight, after wandering constantly between the Captain's bungalow
and the lighthouse, Mr. Higgins fell down in the sand, impartially
between the two abodes. The Captain and the Colonel, in silence,
removed the political enigma to his sail-cloth tent.

Mr. Higgins did not appear at the polls until nearly noon. It was
evident that the combination of Jamaica rum and Kentucky mountain
dew had made terrible ravages on a constitution even so immune to
spirituous shocks as his.

"Drink's the cause o' this here country's goin' to the dorgs," he
remarked, through pallid, parched lips, as he entered the booth.

His ballot cast, he disappeared, still enwrapped in mystery and
silence.

At exactly six o'clock the Colonel arose.

"The polls of the Sixty-sixth Precinct, Monroe County, State of
Florida, are now closed. We will proceed to count votes, Captain
Hartford!"

The Colonel thrust into the box a hand that shook in spite of him
and drew out a ballot.

"One Republican!"

The Captain's heart leaped.

"One Democratic!" announced the Colonel tremulously.

The Captain waited, staring at the floor. Finally he looked up. The
Colonel was gazing as if hypnotized, his bulging eyes fastened on
the ballot in his hand. At last the announcement came:

"The Prohibition Party--one vote!"

Two minutes later they found this pinned to Mr. Higgins' empty tent:

"i don what i don bekaws of conshunce i suddently cam to fel the
orful kurse of drink hav made free to borrow a sale bote will leve
same at kee west"

The Colonel drew himself up in his Prince Albert.

"The Sixty-sixth has again split even, sah!" he announced.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE NIGHT NURSE

By Will S. Gidley


It was long after the midnight hour in the dimly lighted wards of
the field hospital back of the English battle line at Ypres, and
pretty, white-capped Nydia, the nurse best beloved by the wounded
soldiers--Nydia, with the face of a Madonna and voice as soft and
soothing as that of a mother crooning a lullaby to a sleeping
babe--was flitting about among the cots, adjusting a bandage or
pillow here, and giving a swallow of water or medicine there, and
doing everything possible for the comfort of her charges.

There was something of a mystery about Nydia. Nobody knew her
history or antecedents. She had appeared at the hospital and
proffered her services at a time when they were badly needed, and
the medical staff had accepted the offer and set her at work without
further questioning or investigation.

From the first Nydia was very popular with the patients to whom she
ministered; far more so than she was with the grim-visaged
surgeon-general in charge of the field hospital. Said he one day to
his assistant:

"This angel-faced nurse we've taken on lately may mean well, but I
am afraid she is a bit careless. Altogether too many of her patients
are dropping off--er--unexpectedly. I'll have to look into the
matter."

Which he did--later on--but that, as Kipling says, is another
story.

Return we now to Nydia on her nightly rounds.

She pauses at the cot of a stalwart young English captain who is
suffering from a gunshot wound received a few days before, and bends
over him with a look of anxious solicitude on her face.

"How is the pain to-night, my captain?" she asks, in a low, sweet
voice like a caress.

"Bad, bad," he replies slowly. "But I can stand it, dear, so long as
I have you for a nurse. Just think! Only a week since you first came
to my cot side, and already I love----"

"Hush! my brave captain," she breaks in on his rhapsody. "You must
not think of such things when you are suffering so from your wound.
It will be time enough for that to-morrow. To-night you must sleep.
I must use the needle to quiet your pain."

"And when I wake to-morrow may I talk to you of love?"

"Yes--when you wake, my captain, you may talk to me of love--_when
you wake_!

"Listen, dear," she went on in a whisper so low that only he could
hear. "I am going to lull you to sleep with a story--a story of
myself." She paused long enough to use the needle and then resumed
whispering in his ear:

"Don't interrupt or try to ask questions, my captain; there isn't
time for that. In three minutes you will be asleep, and I must talk
fast. You, no doubt, believe me to be either French or English. I am
neither. I am from beyond the Rhine, a true daughter of the
Fatherland. When the war came I had an affianced lover in the German
army, a young lieutenant, who had been sent to England on a secret
mission. There he was arrested, tried, and executed, as a spy, in
the Tower of London.

"Yes, the English shot my lover for a spy! Since that my only
thoughts have been of revenge. That is why I am here acting as
nurse--and why my patients die!

"The English sent my lover out into the Great Unknown--alone. I
will send a thousand English to keep him company! To-day, my
captain, you said you would gladly die for me, so I am taking you at
your word!

"I have just given you a fatal dose of the hypodermic, and when you
wake it will be in another world, with my brave Wilhelm, who was
named for the great War Lord. When you meet him, tell him that _I
sent you_--and give him my love!

"Ha! ha! Do you hear, my captain? Give him my love; and tell him
that each night, Providence permitting, I will send him a new
messenger bearing my greetings! That is all. Good-bye, my captain.
The end is near. I am going to kiss you now so you may die happy!"

She bent lower over the cot of the dying officer. He had not spoken
before during her self-revelation; but now his eyes, filled with
horror and loathing, rolled upward to meet hers, and with a final
effort he hissed forth the one word--"_Fiend!_"

Nydia smiled--a grim, mirthless smile.

"No, not fiend, my captain--only a German!"

--------------------------------------------------------------------

WHY THE TRENCH WAS LOST

By Charles F. Pietsch


Not two miles away lay his home. Metre by metre, Joffre's "nibbling"
had forced the Boches back over the death-sown fields of the
Argonne. And now as he sat in his cunningly hidden nest aloft in a
treetop, observer for a battery of 75's, his telescope, wandering
from the German trenches, brought home so close that he seemed
almost to be standing in his own garden.

It was so close, he thought--just over there. And it was so good to
be able to watch little Marie playing at the door, and to peep
inside into the kitchen where Jeanne was working--or to follow her
from room to room as her slim figure flitted past the windows.

He had worried so when "Papa" Joffre's masterly retreat had left her
there alone. But this was the fourth day now that he had kept watch
over her, and soon, he said to himself with a smile--soon that
little home was sure to lie back of the French lines in safety.

The day was quiet. Only intermittently a cannon barked or a rifle
spat across the wire entanglements. And all the morning he had sat
watching Marie's flaxen tresses bobbing among the rose bushes--and
dreaming of when the war ended.

And suddenly the picture changed.

Marie has dropped her dolls and is racing into the kitchen. The door
slams. He almost hears the bolt shot to, he thinks. And a squad of
Uhlans rides into the yard.

For months past he had driven that picture from his mind. It
couldn't be--oh! it couldn't be. And now in sight of home it came
in grim reality. So close--and yet as well be at the ends of the
earth with that German line between them.

He steadied the telescope in time to see a gun butt smash in the
door and the officer stride in. The German batteries opened with a
crash. A charge was coming. But he had no eyes for the enemy. He
felt, rather than saw, a gray-green wave with a crest of steel flow
up from the German trenches and over the "dead man's land." And
instinctively he shot orders into the transmitter at his lips.

"Two hundred metres."

"One hundred and seventy-five metres--left."

And as the little puffs of shrapnel began to blossom over the
gray-green wave, his gaze swung back to the little cottage.

And then he forgot the Germans--forgot his comrades in the
endangered trench--forgot war--everything. For a figure--a
woman's figure--struggling--fell past a window in the arms of a
uniformed figure.

He thought a scream came to his ears. For one insane second he
started down from his station: he must go; he was so close. She
needed him. And then as his eyes fell on the struggle below he
realized how far it was--how helpless he was. And----

But there was a way. And he began to snap orders into the
transmitter.

"One thousand five hundred metres--eight degrees left."

A puff rose on the highway running past his home.

"One thousand six hundred metres."

And a shell exploded at the little stable.

"One thousand six hundred and fifty metres"--he shot another order
over the wire--and another--and another--and then:

"Battery, fire!" And with a cry, fell headlong from the treetop as
the little home and its tragedy vanished in a whirl of smoke and
wreckage.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE KING OF THE PLEDGERS

By H. R. R. Hertzberg


The Editor of _Life_,
  31 West 17th Street,
    New York City.

I send this communication to you rather than to the editor of one of
the country's daily papers, because your publication is national and
even international, instead of being a more or less local one, and
also because the sketch of my life it contains, true though it is,
has an appearance sufficiently fictional to fit one of your
short-story numbers.

My special purpose in wishing to have this autobiographical sketch
published is that it may warn and protect a worthy body of men, the
Roman Catholic priesthood of the United States, against a class of
grafters which preys upon them and of which I was the "King" for
nearly ten years.

But, knowing mankind in general, and myself in particular, fairly
well, I have no doubt there is another reason for the wish, to wit,
that vanity of vanities which compels all crooks, "con"-men,
grafters, to brag of their exploits occasionally, and
which--through a perverse viewing of viciousness as
prowess--causes the most of men to be prouder of their falls from
grace than of the good things they have done.

                   *       *       *       *       *

Up to this very day ten years ago I was wealthy and happy. The
wealth I had inherited and the happiness I had married. Then my
happiness died--with my wife. And, the same evening, my wealth
disappeared--with a dishonest manager.

There was nothing left me but our little daughter, a child of eight,
and some two thousand dollars. The former I gave into the care of
the Dominican Sisters at whose convent, in a small Eastern town, my
wife had been educated, and who would, I felt sure, make a true
woman and lady of the girl. And the money I also turned over to the
nuns, for my child's keep as a boarding-pupil, until she was
eighteen.

So I remained alone with my responsibility: the need of providing
for my daughter's later future. This purpose simply had to be
achieved, and that within ten years--because, when I recovered from
the sickness, partly brought about by my wife's death, the doctor, a
scientist of note and a close friend, told me frankly that I was
afflicted with a disease of the heart which would not let me live no
longer than a decade, and this only if I remained as exceptionally
temperate as I had always been.

God knows I did my best to obtain honest and fairly remunerative
work. My very best. But I failed utterly. And, finally, I came to
think of work that was not honest. Grafting began to seem almost a
duty, what with my pennilessness and my responsibility. Still, I did
not know how to graft, not at all.

A bit of street-corner talk it was that "put me wise." I heard a
fellow ask another to have a drink, and I heard the other's answer:
"No," said he, "no more of that for mine. I've bin to Father
O'Kelly's 'n' took the pledge fer keeps, 'n' the good man's give me
five dollars to help the wife 'n' the baby till I c'n git a new
job."

"He has taken the pledge and the priest has given him five dollars!"
I repeated to myself. And then what poets call an inspiration came
to me: there might be money in taking the pledge continually, as a
business. First, I smiled at the odd, phantastically sacrilegious
conceit. But I grew serious--the Responsibility (yes, it should be
spelled with a capital) looming large in my mind's eyes. Soon I was
walking rapidly toward the nearest Catholic church and calling for
the pastor, a priest whom I did not know and who did not know me. My
clothes were rather shabby by this time and I may have looked
dissipated, thanks to my several months' incessant "worrying."

And the priest received me, and I took the pledge "before God and
His Mother and the whole Court of Heaven"; and the kindly old Father
asked me whether I was in need, and, when I stammered a "yes," he
gave me a bill and his blessing, and I was again on the street, a
successful grafter.

To appreciate the enormity of my self-contempt at that moment you
must know that I had steadily been not only what is usually meant by
"a gentleman," but, also, a sincere, practical Catholic, while now I
was a petty swindler--and a swindler of my Church.

Almost did I return to the priest and tell him the truth.
Responsibility appeared, however, and led me away. At a distance
from the priest's house I looked at my "thirty pieces of silver"
which were a ten-dollar greenback. Then I judged that my
appearance--of decent poverty--was an asset of sorts, that the
"gentleman-gone-wrong" naturally elicited more sympathy of heart and
purse than the commoner bar-room loafer.

Thereafter I became the King of the Pledgers.

Yes, there are many pledgers in the land. Professional
pledge-takers, who are also professional drunkards. For Catholic
priests are easily imposed on, since they're almost always
warm-hearted men and since their faith and their calling render
charity, helpfulness, imperative; impel them to extend the benefit
of the doubt to every applicant, however worthless-looking, for fear
of sinning against charity. Wherefore, even the least plausible
pledger is sure to pocket a donation each time he takes the pledge.

The professional pledger must be a traveller, of course. The most of
cities can be "worked to a finish" in a week. But there are three,
at least, which have kept even the King of the Pledgers, with all
his sobriety and diligence, busy for four or five months.

As I have said, I was exceedingly successful. Two weeks ago my bank
account, piled up through pledging only, totalled $9,902. With
eighty-eight additional dollars I would have enough to purchase for
my daughter the annuity--sufficient to keep her comfortable all her
life--that was the object of my more than nine years' swindling.

Three times had I visited the little one since I took her to the
convent. The last time she was sixteen and a happy, gentle,
flower-like girl, gladdeningly and saddeningly like her mother. And
I wrote her and heard from her every month.

Well, that day, two weeks ago, when I'd found myself so near my
goal, I went out to "work" as usual. My victim was a young priest
just ordained, the son of a multi-millionaire, who had given up a
brilliant worldly position. I was the first person to whom he
administered the pledge. He was moved to the core. And he gave me
... one hundred dollars.

My life work was done.

In almost childlike glee I ran back to my room there to draw the
check necessary for the immediate purchase of my girl's annuity. And
there I found a letter from the child.

She asked for my fatherly consent--that she might enter the
Dominican Sister's Order as a novice. She had a true vocation, said
she, had always meant to be a nun. And now that she was eighteen
... "it is my heart's wish, father, dear," were her words. A note
from the Mother Superior confirmed her declaration.

Having read, I fell back in my chair and laughed crazily at the joke
that was "on me." Then I thanked God for the child. And then I wrote
a check for all the money I had, went to my last victim at once,
told him everything, handed him my check and his hundred
dollars--to spend in charity but not by way of gifts to pledgers,
and fell into unconsciousness.

From that hour on I have been dying in a hospital bed. My daughter
has received my consent, and the young priest will send her her
father's love and last blessing when I am dead, in a day or so. And
I shall die in peace.

                                  Very truly yours,
                                        The ex-King of the Pledgers.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

A PO-LICE-MAN

By Lincoln Steffens


"Chief," said Mickey Sweeney, police reporter, to the Chief of
Police, "my paper wants th' goods to prove whether that red-headed
crook, Captain Mahoney, is a crook or an honest man."

The Chief was about to light a cigar. He blew out the match and
turned an anxious face to Mickey. Twice the reporter had saved his
official life. There was nothing he would not tell him, if he really
wanted to know it, nothing. He looked at the boy darkly, then he
looked away, off across the humming restaurant, off across the
humming years, and the Chief's face cleared.

"Mickey," he said, "when I was young, younger than you, and a green
cop, greener than you, I was posted on Sixth Avenue, east side,
between Twenty-eighth Street and Thirty-three. The heart of the
Tenderloin. And my beat beat with the beat of the blood of it; an
th' life; an' th' death. One night, one of my first nights, a fly
cabman--one of them nighthawks that picked up drunks to take 'em
home and took 'em instead to th' Park and robbed 'em; I wasn't onto
th' game then, but because of th' tips they give th' police about
other crooks, we let them operate--well, this night-hawk drives up
close to th' curb by me, and says:

"'Hey, Bill,' he whispers, hoarse, 'there's murder an' riot in th'
Half Shell.'

"I hot-footed to th' oyster house. Empty; not a head in sight. But I
listened, and underneath, hell was boiling: yells, curses, thuds.
And I piped at th' end of th' counter, a bit back, a trapdoor with
th' lid off. I dropped in.

"I come down on them. One of my feet scraped down th' face of some
bloke, and he cussed. My other leg got across a feller's shoulder
and stuck so I went down on my head, and my hands touched th'
murdered body; they was all blood. Which helped me up; that, an'
hearing near me a call, low an' quick; 'A cop!' and the chorus
singing: 'Kill him!'

"So I come up standin', an' striking out, blind, with th' stick. But
I began to look around, careful, to get th' lay. There was one
gas-jet, rear. By it I made out th' feller that did th' murder. He
was being fought over; some, th' friends o' th' dead man, desirous
to kill him: others, his friends, to save him. I made for him. He
was at the back, under the light, at th' tip end of th' two twisted
strings of crazy-mad fighters. I had to go along between 'em, but
that wasn't so hard. In th' surprise of my arrival, the clinch had
broke, and that let me pass; that an' my stick on their faces. So I
got through, grabbed my man by th' collar of all th' shirts and
coats he had on, and I threw him up back o' me onto an old poker
table that stood in th' corner.

"So far I enjoyed it, but th' mob rallied. The two fighting sides
joined, and all together come for me.

"Ever see a mob mad to murder, Mickey? It scares ye. It's a beast;
looks like a beast, smells like a beast. I was scared. I hit out,
first with my stick, then when th' mob jammed me against th' table,
I hopped up on it and kicked with both legs. An' I floored 'em; lots
of 'em. But they come up again, and again, and th' mass of 'em bent
me back on th' prisoner. I had to hold him, you see, and he rolled
an' pitched an' kicked; that's what give me only one hand. And, by
and by, I had only one leg. He--or somebody--drove an oyster knife
through my ankle, in between th' tendon an' th' bone, and nailed me
to th' table.

"I was done for, I guess. I was hit all over--fists, knives,
chairs, legs of tables. I was sore; weak. Mike, I was all in when I
seen a red-headed cop dive into th' hole. That's how it looked to
me, like a dive head-first. Maybe it was because I noticed first,
and so particular, th' red head on that uniform, an' th' red face,
an' th' red eyes; and because they looked so good to me.

"'Hold 'em, Brother,' he calls to me, quiet-like an' sure. 'Easy
does it.'

"And up he turns on his feet, an' begins to cut a swathe up to me
through that mess o' men. It was beautiful. That's when I learned to
use a stick right, watchin' him. He held it high, so as when it
landed on a head, it come down level, exactly on th' crown. Seems to
shoot th' 'lectricity down th' spine, through all th' nerves to all
th' joints, plumb to th' toes. He hit no head twice. Every man he
fanned closed up like a knife, and click, click, click--slow,
regular, nice, he laid 'em down like a corduroy road on which he
walked to me.

"His red eyes was looking every which way, and they didn't miss a
thing. I saw 'em see th' knife that spiked me to th' table, but they
was looking at somethin' else when his left hand pulled that knife,
one jerk, and, in the same stroke, drove it into a bloke that was
pounding my face, and left it in him.

"'Baby between us,' he says, an' he grabs th' prisoner, yanks him to
his feet, and when I, obeying him, took th' other side, he says:

"'Forward, march!'

"And we marched. We stumbled some, an' slipped--off the bodies on
th' floor. They was coming to, and moved; and some was getting up;
enough to keep our sticks busy. But we marched, us three, like a
battalion, to--under the hole.

"'Up we go,' he says to me, and with my good foot in his two hands,
he shoots me up and out like a lady mounting a horse in th' Park.

"'Now, you,' he says to th' prisoner, and up th' prisoner came to
me.

"And then he turns, belts th' two nearest heads two good last belts,
and he bows. 'Gentlemen,' he says to th' mob, 'good-night.'

"He hands me his hand and comes out, closes th' trap-door down
careful and stands on th' lid.

"'Now, then,' he says to me, 'you take your baby to th' station;
send me th' off-platoon, with th' wagon; and--don't hurry. I like
it here. And that old oyster knife left rust in your left ankle.
'Tend to it.'"

The Chief lit the cigar he had been handling as a club. When it was
burning perfectly, he said:

"Sweeney, I wish you wouldn't ask me nothing about Mahoney. He's a
po-lice-man."

--------------------------------------------------------------------

THE QUEST OF THE V. C.

By A. Byers Fletcher


There was tumultuous cheering in the ranks of the Irish Guards
somewhere in France. Sergeant O'Reilly, V. C., had returned to the
trenches. Two months before, Private O'Reilly had, with a
scorching-hot machine-gun, held, single-handed, an important trench
after all his comrades had fallen. Incidentally, he had also saved
the life of an officer, who lay wounded and exposed on the parapet
of the trench. His was but one of many such brave deeds which
occurred almost daily along that terrible front, but O'Reilly's deed
had the advantage of being conspicuous. Hence his two-months' leave,
his journey to London, and his reception at Buckingham Palace, where
the King himself pinned the little bronze cross to his khaki jacket.
Hence, his public reception in his native village of Tullameelan,
where they hung garlands of flowers about his neck, and his old
mother wept tears of joyful pride. Hence, too, his return with the
sergeant's stripes. The story of the honours heaped upon him had
been duly chronicled and illustrated in the press, and had preceded
his return to the trenches. Hence, his joyful reception by the
regiment.

Private Finnessy and Private Moloney had been among the first to
grasp the hero's hand, and had joined heartily in the vociferous
cheering, but now that affairs had again resumed their normal round,
these two companions sat at the bottom of the trench, smoking
thoughtfully.

"O'Reilly's a brave man," said Finnessy, then added, after a pause,
"the lucky devil!"

"I believe ye," replied Moloney.

"And he only five feet sivin," continued Finnessy.

"With one punch," said Moloney, contemplating his hairy fist, "I
could lift him into the inemy's trenches!"

"Do ye mind how all the girls in Tullameelan kissed him?" said
Finnessy.

"I know one girl there that didn't!" said Moloney hotly.

"And I know another!" as hotly replied Finnessy.

"The papers are nothin' but lyin' rags," said Moloney.

"I believe ye," said Finnessy.

Viciously whistled the bullets across the top of the trench, and a
shell or two whined overhead, unheeded by the comrades, long
accustomed to the sound.

"But I'm not denyin'," said Finnessy, after a pause, "that the
little brown cross is a great timptation to anny girl."

"It is that!" agreed Moloney.

                   *       *       *       *       *

"At five o'clock!" the whisper ran along the trench. Since three
o'clock the guns massed on the hills behind them had been sending a
shrieking death-storm into the enemy's trenches in front of the
Irish Guards. At five, promptly, the storm of shell would cease. At
a given signal the men would clamber out over the parapet, make
their way through the openings in the wire entanglements, and rush
the trenches before them. There was no outward excitement. The
aspect of the men remained unchanged, but one could feel the nervous
tension. A young subaltern, near Finnessy and Moloney, glanced
occasionally at his wrist watch and smoked his cigarette more
rapidly than usual.

"If he falls," whispered Finnessy to Moloney, "'tis mesilf that will
bring him in."

"You will not," said Moloney, "I've had me eye on him f'r wakes!"

"Ye can have the Major," said Finnessy.

"I'll not!" said Moloney, "'twud take a horse to carry him in!"

The batteries ceased firing. A low whistle sounded. The men grasped
their rifles with bayonets fixed. Cold steel alone must do the work
now. Another whistle. With a hoarse cheer the men climbed out over
the front of the trench and the charge was on.

Side by side raced Finnessy and Moloney, with eyes fixed on the
young subaltern, who, carrying a rifle, was sprinting on before
them. For a few moments it seemed that the batteries had effectually
silenced the trenches of the enemy immediately in front. A hundred
yards farther and they would be reached. Now, however, from that
line of piled earth and barbed wire came the crackling roar of
machine-guns. For a moment the men wavered and many fell, but, with
a growl, the others rushed on. Fifty yards farther, and then the
ground seemed to heave up and hit Finnessy and Moloney. Side by side
they lay, with their faces partly rooted in the trampled ground. To
their ears came dully the sound of the fierce hand-to-hand fighting
beyond them. Slowly they scraped the dirt from their faces and
looked at each other.

"Where did they get ye, Finnessy?" asked Moloney.

"In the leg," groaned Finnessy.

"The same f'r me," moaned Moloney.

The bullets of the machine-guns still sang over them, and both men
began to dig into the soft earth and pile it into a mound in front
of their heads.

Now back across the torn ground came the remnant of the charge, for
the trenches had not been taken. Some ran, others walked or crawled
or were carried, but always over them and among them whirled the
leaden death. Soon Moloney and Finnessy were left alone in their
little self-made trenches, for none of their retreating comrades had
noticed them.

Twilight was fading, when a brilliant idea flashed across the mind
of Finnessy. The intensity of the illumination almost dazed him for
a moment.

"Moloney," said Finnessy, "'tis not very sthrong ye're feelin,' I'm
thinkin'."

"Ye'er think-tank is overflowin', shut it off!" growled Moloney.

"Sure, Moloney, ye'er voice is very wake! Ye'll be faintin' in a
minute!" said Finnessy soothingly.

"I'll not!" cried Moloney. "What's eatin' ye?"

"Poor old boy!" purred Finnessy, "ye're in a disperate state. Ye
must be rescued. I'm goin' to take ye in!"

"How?" asked Moloney.

"I'm goin' to take ye on me back and crawl in with ye. It's me duty
to do it, and England expicts every Irishman to do his duty! Me only
reward will be ye'er gratitood!" said Finnessy.

Slowly the brilliant idea spread to the mind of Moloney.

"Sure, Finnessy," said Moloney, "'tis brave and kind of ye, but I
can't accipt ye'er sacrifice. 'Tis ye'ersilf that must be saved. I
can hear the trimble in ye'er speech. No one can say that a Moloney
iver diserted a friend! I'll take ye in if I die f'r it!"

"Don't be a fool, Moloney, ye know ye're waker than I am!"

"I'm not!" cried Moloney. "I'm as sthrong as a horse, and I am goin'
to save ye or perish in the attempt!"

"Ye silfish baste!" howled Finnessy. "Ye'd spoil me chance for the
V. C., would ye!"

"Silfish baste ye'ersilf!" roared Moloney. "'Tis me own chance! And
in ye'll go on me back, dead or alive!"

Moloney and Finnessy reached for each other.

Back in the trenches of the Irish Guards the young subaltern,
peering through a loop-hole, saw dimly through the growing dusk the
struggles of Moloney and Finnessy.

"Poor devils," he muttered, "must be in agony. Didn't know any were
left alive out there."

Even as he spoke a wiry figure beside him sprang to the top of the
parapet and started toward the struggling men.

Now the enemy's trench awoke again, but presently, through the zone
of death, the subaltern and all who could secure loop-holes saw that
wiry figure slowly crawling, crawling back toward their trench,
dragging behind him two reluctant but exhausted men.

As the limp bodies of Finnessy and Moloney slid down into the trench
a cheer broke forth from the men which drowned the noise of the
firing.

Slowly Finnessy and Moloney opened their eyes. The subaltern was
speaking:

"Sergeant O'Reilly," he said, "if such a thing were possible, you
deserve and should have another Victoria Cross!"

Again the cheers broke forth.

Finnessy looked at Moloney.

"For the love of Mike!" said Finnessy.

"I believe ye," said Moloney.

--------------------------------------------------------------------

SOMEWHERE IN BELGIUM

By Percy Godfrey Savage


The crude little cottage had been surrounded and two stalwart
peasant boys routed out, but only one gun had been found. Each lad
stoutly swore that he was responsible for the sniping. The old
mother stood near them.

"Choose one or we will shoot both!" the German officer again ordered
the old woman.

Her shrunken, toil-worn frame seemed to suffer pain of death. She
wound her rough hands in her apron. Terror, hatred, love, devotion,
helplessness filled her eyes.

Alphonse, the tall, light-haired boy, was urging the smaller and
more delicate Petro by gestures and eager, low words to yield the
punishment to him.

With equal intensity the little fellow pleaded to take the blame
because Alphonse would be better able to care for their mother.

The imperturbable German, not asking for more than one life, set the
decision before the mother herself. Apparently it would be necessary
to shoot both of them.

The soldiers stood waiting for their part in the procedure.

The old woman turned aside. "Take Alphonse," she groaned.

Surprised, but satisfied, they took the boy to the side of the house
and fired upon him.

Perhaps a thought of another youth, perhaps the wonder of why the
old woman had chosen, perhaps a burden of conscience delayed the
officer as he followed his men from the yard.

"Quick, Petro," whispered the mother, and the boy who had been
standing rigid, with the horror of his brother's death gripping his
heart, came to life. Like a shadow he disappeared. The next instant
there was a shot and the German officer fell in the road.

A pack of wild beasts rushed toward the house. Two of them fell.

Somewhere inside the dwelling Petro was killed, but there was
neither shot nor cry.

They found the old peasant kneeling beside the doorway.

"I said, 'take Alphonse!' oh, God," she moaned, "but," she shrieked
with fierce satisfaction as her enemies appeared, "because Petro
could aim better with his gun!"

Three graves on the right of the cottage held the peasants, but
three graves on the left held their toll.

THE END

THE COUNTRY LIFE PRESS
GARDEN CITY, N. Y.


        
            *** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK SHORT STORIES FROM LIFE: THE 81 PRIZE STORIES IN "LIFE'S" SHORTEST STORY CONTEST ***
        

    

Updated editions will replace the previous one‚Äîthe old editions will
be renamed.


Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG‚Ñ¢
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away‚Äîyou may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.


START: FULL LICENSE
THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK


To protect the Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase ‚ÄúProject
Gutenberg‚Äù), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.


Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works


1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person
or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.


1.B. ‚ÄúProject Gutenberg‚Äù is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.


1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (‚Äúthe
Foundation‚Äù or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ License when
you share it without charge with others.



1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.


1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:


1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ work (any work
on which the phrase ‚ÄúProject Gutenberg‚Äù appears, or with which the
phrase ‚ÄúProject Gutenberg‚Äù is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:


  
    This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
    other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
    whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
    of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online
    at www.gutenberg.org. If you
    are not located in the United States, you will have to check the laws
    of the country where you are located before using this eBook.
  


1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase ‚ÄúProject
Gutenberg‚Äù associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.


1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢.


1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ License.


1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ work in a format
other than ‚ÄúPlain Vanilla ASCII‚Äù or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original ‚ÄúPlain
Vanilla ASCII‚Äù or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.


1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.


1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works
provided that:


    ‚Ä¢ You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
        the use of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ works calculated using the method
        you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
        to the owner of the Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ trademark, but he has
        agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
        within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
        legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
        payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
        Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
        Section 4, ‚ÄúInformation about donations to the Project Gutenberg
        Literary Archive Foundation.‚Äù
    
    ‚Ä¢ You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
        you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
        does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
        License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
        copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
        all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
        works.
    
    ‚Ä¢ You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
        any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
        electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
        receipt of the work.
    
    ‚Ä¢ You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
        distribution of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ works.
    


1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.


1.F.


1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain ‚ÄúDefects,‚Äù such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.


1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the ‚ÄúRight
of Replacement or Refund‚Äù described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.


1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.


1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you ‚ÄòAS-IS‚Äô, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.


1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.


1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.


Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢


Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.


Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢‚Äôs
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at www.gutenberg.org.


Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation


The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation‚Äôs EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state‚Äôs laws.


The Foundation‚Äôs business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation‚Äôs website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact


Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation


Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ depends upon and cannot survive without widespread
public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.


The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular state
visit www.gutenberg.org/donate.


While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.


International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.


Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate.


Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ electronic works


Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.


Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.


Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org.


This website includes information about Project Gutenberg‚Ñ¢,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.


